Claim: "Hillary Clinton agrees with John McCain ""by voting to give George Bush the benefit of the doubt on Iran."""
Evidence Summary: In 2016, she alarmed fellow Democrats when she met with Donald Trump during his transition to president and later when she took a secret trip to Syria and met with President Bashar Assad. She questioned whether he was responsible for a chemical attack on civilians that killed dozens and led the U.S. to attack a Syrian airbase. She also noted that the 2003 invasion of Iraq was based on faulty intelligence and said that she wanted to understand the evidence of the Syria attack. Her warm regard for Bush would seem out of place a decade ago.

Claim: "I'm the only person on this stage who has worked actively just last year passing, along with Russ Feingold, some of the toughest ethics reform since Watergate."
Evidence Summary: Face the Nation looks at the legacy of former Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nevada. The Affordable Care Act has so far withstood McConnell and Trump's efforts to dismantle the legislation. Reid was prescient in urging the Obama administration and congressional Republicans to go public about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. The next chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., will talk with us. And we'll air our interview with a panel of newly-seated House Democrats.

Claim: "However, it took $19.5 million in Oregon Lottery funds for the Port of Newport to eventually land the new NOAA Marine Operations Center-Pacific."
Evidence Summary: The shutdown has brought a particular chill to Kodiak, Alaska. Roughly a quarter of the island’s population is either an employee or dependent family member of the Coast Guard. The wholesale value of his fleet's catch is roughly $350 million a year. The project's 2,000-foot-long screen — which was already failing to capture plastic while stationed more than 1,000 miles off the coast of California — broke apart just before New Year's under the constant wind and waves.

Claim: "For the first time in history, the share of the national popular vote margin is smaller than the Latino vote margin."
Evidence Summary: Democrats started organizing Latino voters too late, didn’t tailor their message for an increasingly diverse community and ultimately took Latino support for granted, a Florida pollster told about 50 members of the Democratic Hispanic Caucus of Broward County. ‘You just need to start now,’ he said. With the swearing-in last Tuesday of two newly elected Republican leaders, Gov. Ron DeSantis and Senator Rick Scott, Florida has become a more reliably red political bastion, making the path to Electoral College victory that much tougher for the 2020 Democratic nominee.

Claim: "Since 2000, nearly 12 million Americans have slipped out of the middle class and into poverty."
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. The number of households with $10m or more skyrocketed by 856%. If the trajectory of the past three decades continues, by 2050 the median white family will have $174,000 of wealth, while Latino wealth will be just $8,600 – and Black median wealth will head downward to $600. The middle class is living paycheck to paycheck. We must speak truth about our mass incarceration crisis—that we put more people in prison than any country on earth, for no good reason.

Claim: "When Mitt Romney was governor of Massachusetts, we didnt just slow the rate of growth of our government, we actually cut it."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has a history of flip-flopping on a wide variety of issues. Romney’s win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. During the 2012 race, Romney called for the repeal of Obamacare, the federal health care program that had largely replicated what Romney had put into place in Massachusetts.

Claim: "In this last election in November, ... 63 percent of the American people chose not to vote, ... 80 percent of young people, (and) 75 percent of low-income workers chose not to vote."
Evidence Summary: Meade readied his family to head out south of downtown Orlando before the sun rose Tuesday. Wearing shirts with the slogan "Let my people vote," Meade likened his journey to the 1960s movement to end widespread practices that kept black voters away from the polls. "I can vote for the first time with my family and that means a lot to me," he said. "There is power in elected members of the United States Congress speaking up in the interest of their constituency and the American public"

Claim: "U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, D-Wis., and his fellow Democrats went on a spending spree and now their credit card is maxed out"
Evidence Summary: More than 100 Democratic candidates outraised their Republican counterparts in hotly contested congressional races. A new survey from CreditCards.com finds that more than two in five Americans currently carrying debt don’t know when they’ll pay off those balances. A grassroots campaign to seat Democratic Reps. Pramila Jayapal (Wash.) and Ro Khanna (Calif.) on Ways and Means fell short last week. The committee’s rejection of Rep. Ron Kind (D-Wis.) might have provided some solace to progressive trade hawks.

Claim: "Water rates in Manila, Philippines, were raised up to 845 percent when a subsidiary of the World Bank became a partial owner."
Evidence Summary: Southeast Asian stock markets rose on Thursday, with the Philippines leading the pack as investors expect the country's central bank to ease monetary policies. The Southeast Asian economy grew 6.1 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, slightly faster than the previous quarter's 6.0 percent. That brought full-year growth of 6.2 percent, below the government's downwardly revised target of6.5-6.9 percent. California utility PG&E plunged after Reuters reported that the company might file for bankruptcy as it faces big liabilities related to wildfires.

Claim: "Almost 100,000 people left Puerto Rico last year."
Evidence Summary: Julian Castro says he visited Puerto Rico to send a message that “everyone counts.” "I think the Puerto Rican people are the most resilient in the world," he added. "What they have been through in the past year and a half is a testament to them," he said. "This ugliness has gone far enough. Puerto Rico has suffered enough," she said."They are being kept from their families, and they need to come home," Castro said.

Claim: "Says Scott Walker favors cutting up to 350,000 families and children off health care."
Evidence Summary: His boldest and most disputed move came right out of the gate, when he effectively eliminated public sector collective bargaining. The fight over that brought protests as large as 100,000 people and made Walker a national conservative star. His conduct and that of those like him laid the groundwork for the modern Republican Party led by Donald Trump. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: Says Mitt Romney wants to get rid of Planned Parenthood.
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has shown a willingness to subordinate principle to self-interest. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career. Romney’s win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump. Leana Wen, 35, is the first physician to lead Planned Parenthood in nearly 50 years. “People aren’t coming to Planned Parenthood to make a political statement,” Wen said.

Claim: "ISIS supporter tweeted at 10:34 a.m. Shooting began at 10:45 a.m. in Chattanooga, Tenn."
Evidence Summary: A drive-by shooter opened fire on a mosque near Houston, striking a building and truck parked on its property, officials said Tuesday. Police in Greece, New York, announced a "serious plot" to attack the community of Islamberg in Delaware County, near the Catskills. A Texan who says he offered to work as an English teacher for the Islamic State said he witnessed executions and crucifixions during the three plus years he spent with the terrorist group. "This is scary," the center's finance administrator, Jabin Kazia,a told NBC News.

Claim: "If you look at states that are right to work, they constantly do not have budget deficits and they have very good business climates."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. I'm just hoping this government opens up."“We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.” “I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments."

Claim: "The nuclear test conducted in our nation this time is the Earth's 2,054th nuclear test. The five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council have conducted 99.99 percent of the total nuclear tests."
Evidence Summary: Joel Wit was assigned to lead the first inspection of a suspected nuclear site in North Korea. Wit: The first task was to recruit the right people for the job with nuclear expertise and practical inspection experience. The choice we face is to reaffirm our commitment to saving the world from a fate we ourselves have been fortunate enough not to experience, he says. The world has gone an entire lifetime free from nuclear war — us, Wit says. But taking this stability for granted is perhaps the greatest danger our world faces.

Claim: "In the case of a catastrophic event, the Atlanta-area offices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will self-destruct."
Evidence Summary: Although most public health services remain open, those considered “non-essential” have come to a halt. Preventive health clinics and food pantries run by the Indian Health Service are shut down. The Food and Drug Administration has already stopped most food inspections, raising the risk of salmonella, E. coli and listeria outbreaks. The Environmental Protection Agency, where only 700 of 13,000 employees are working during the shutdown, has scaled back inspections. If the impasse continues into October, more vital federal agencies would be forced to shut down, and new dangers would loom.

Claim: "Under President George W. Bush, we added $4.9 trillion to the debt. Under President Obama weve added $6.5 trillion to the debt."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion. The Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026, three years earlier than the projections in its previous report. It was silly to blame Obama for the vicious downturn he inherited in 2009, but he could plausibly argue that his economic stimulus and other policies helped drive the recovery.

Claim: "Maggie Hassan raised tuition, making it the highest in America."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand: "I'm going to fight for other people's kids as hard as I would fight for my own" Ocasio-Cortez: "America is only working for those on the top" Warren: “This is the moment we need to make big structural change in this country’s economy.” She said her motivation came from being grateful for the opportunities she had to become a Harvard law professor and later a senator, after an upbringing in Oklahoma.

Claim: "We created 800,000 new jobs, we cut the unemployment rate almost in half and today New York State has more private sector jobs than it has ever had in its history"
Evidence Summary: Over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. Communities across the country have felt the impact of our stronger economy. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. The new year will also bring a focus on the 2020 presidential election -- something Trump was already teasing.

Claim: "We have towns in West Texas that are out of water, that are having to truck in water."
Evidence Summary: Phillips is focused on what he cares most about: water. He bought his father’s restaurant, the Fish Dock, and uses the menus to educate customers about local water testing results. “We need to give up on throwing rocks. It's not conducive to fixing problems,” he says. The shutdown has hit businesses as well as the people who aren’t getting paychecks, says Phillips. The government really needs to get together and work this out, he adds.

Claim: "In Georgia, women earn 82 cents for every dollar earned by men."
Evidence Summary: Citigroup says female employees earn 29 percent less than men do. The bank also reported that, among its U.S. employees, people of color earn 7 percent less. "The numbers are difficult," said Sara Wechter, Citigroup's global head of human resources. "We should obviously be at 100 percent parity, and that's what we're striving for," she said. "There is no reasonable reason to pay men more than women for the same work," students say.

Claim: "They were going to build the wall a while ago, not so long ago, like in 06. And they couldnt get environmental impact statements."
Evidence Summary: "The Steel Barrier, or Wall, should have been built by previous administrations long ago. They never got it done - I will. Without it, our Country cannot be safe. Criminals, Gangs, Human Traffickers, Drugs & so much other big trouble can easily pour in. It can be stopped cold!" he tweeted. "This is indigenous lands, you know. We’re not supposed to have walls here. Before anybody else came here we never had walls. We never had a prison."

Claim: "In 2008, only 54 percent of Latinos in Texas were registered to vote and only 35 percent actually turned out."
Evidence Summary: Democrats started organizing Latino voters too late, didn’t tailor their message for an increasingly diverse community and ultimately took Latino support for granted, a Florida pollster told about 50 members of the Democratic Hispanic Caucus of Broward County. With the swearing-in last Tuesday of two newly elected Republican leaders, Gov. Ron DeSantis and Senator Rick Scott, Florida has become a more reliably red political bastion, making the path to Electoral College victory that much tougher for the 2020 Democratic nominee. The Hispanic portion of the United States population today is similar to the portion in California in the early 1990s.

Claim: Only 2 percent of public high schools in the country offer PE classes.
Evidence Summary: Only 0.2 percent of students in public middle and high schools in France took Arabic classes in the 2017-2018 school year. The language is far behind the widely taught English, Spanish and German. A wave of “Bible literacy” bills emerging in state legislatures would allow more students in high schools to study the Old and New Testaments. Groups that pushed bills to post the national motto in schools are now pushing legislation to require elective Bible classes in public schools in at least six states.

Claim: "Said he's the only Republican candidate ""who's actually turned around a government economy."""
Evidence Summary: Trump was never a campaign surrogate or ever considered for a presidential appointment in previous administrations. Trump managed to beat out more than a dozen rivals to grab the nomination. “He hijacked our party, and people went along with it,” said Weaver, who had previously worked for Arizona Sen. John McCain. Most of the changes Trump has imposed on the country have been through executive actions and by altering internal policies at the various executive agencies. The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done, Weaver said.

Claim: "On military recruiters at Harvard, Elena Kagan ""took a position and the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that she was wrong."""
Evidence Summary: In 1981, the Supreme Court decided 6-3 that male-only draft registration was constitutional because women weren't eligible for most combat roles. Last year, a federal judge in Houston ruled that the high court precedent might no longer apply because "now, women can serve in combat roles" The cases involve "a matter of imperative public importance: the authority of the U.S. military to determine who may serve in the nation's armed forces," Solicitor General Noel Francisco told the court.

Claim: "There are 321,092 public school teachers in Texas. And there are 313,850 non-teachers in our public schools."
Evidence Summary: "I don't know of another profession where the employees bring materials into the school," says teacher. "When was the last time you had to take a piece of sheet metal into a school?" "I want very much for them to go to a school just like I went to school," he says of his children. "We need to send a message to current teachers that we value their efforts," he adds. "It's time to change the way we do things in this country"

Claim: "Under Mayor Cicilline, [Providence] was a sanctuary city."
Evidence Summary: Cicilline said revamping the police department in Providence was what he was most proud of. He cast himself as an aspiring Robin Hood — aiming to take from the rich and give to the poor. “Plenty of money in this city,” the mayor said, flanked by screens with graphs of productivity outpacing compensation. ‘It’s just in the wrong hands!’ he said. � ‘As long as we remember our first principles and believe in ourselves, the future will be ours.’

Claim: Transgender individuals in the U.S. have a 1-in-12 chance of being murdered.
Evidence Summary: Dana Martin, 31, was found shot to death in a vehicle in Montgomery, Ala. Martin's murder is the first in what is likely to be a grim toll. Since 2013, the Human Rights Campaign has documented at least 128 cases where transgender people were victims of fatal violence. Nearly nine in 10 victims were transgender women, the group says. The military announced in 2016 that transgender individuals already serving in the military would be allowed to serve openly. But after President Donald Trump took office, the administration delayed the enlistment date, saying the issue needed further study.

Claim: "At Bain Capital, we helped start an early childhood learning company called Bright Horizons that First Lady Michelle Obama rightly praised."
Evidence Summary: From 2009 to 2017, black women raised $289 million, or 0.0006 percent of the total $424.7 billion of venture capital raised. "Every black woman I know, whose credentials are just as good as mine, has had trouble raising money," says Lisa Gelobter, a former tech executive at BET Networks. A growing number of diversity funds, including New Voices, a $100 million fund from Sundial Brands CEO Richelieu Dennis, are giving black women more options.

Claim: "Says the man who rushed the stage at him in Dayton, Ohio, had chatter about ISIS, or with ISIS in his social media posts."
Evidence Summary: Arizona man charged with terrorism after allegedly telling dispatcher he was affiliated with ISIS. He was already facing an aggravated assault charge for throwing rocks at the sergeant and brandishing the knife outside a sheriff’s substation. Twitter CEO and co-founder Jack Dorsey confirmed to HuffPost that he privately sought business advice from right-wing political commentator Ali Akbar. Akbar, who now goes by Ali Alexander, is known for producing videos with prominent alt-right conspiracy theorist Mike Cernovich.

Claim: "If you take the population growth here in Virginia, we are net zero on job creation since (Bob McDonnell) became governor."
Evidence Summary: While Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product, it ranks 26th in income equality, according to the American Community Survey. Mr. Carter has been a vocal opponent of the incentive package, worth more than half a billion dollars, used to lure one of Amazon’s new headquarters to Crystal City, Va. And he fought against a bill overhauling the state”s energy grid, arguing that it gave away too much to Dominion, a powerful for-profit utility. He is the first to admit that these bills have little chance of passing this session, since Republicans hold a slim majority in both chambers.

Claim: "Under Obama, home values in Florida collapsed, construction jobs were lost and the state had a high foreclosure rate."
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. Republicans refused to acknowledge the obvious improvements under Obama, who took office when the economy was shedding 750,000 jobs a month. In reality, presidents don’t control the business cycle, and to Trump’s recent frustration, they don't control the Federal Reserve, either.

Claim: "The new Arizona immigration law ""says that any police officer can stop anyone who appears to them to be reasonably suspicious of being an undocumented person."""
Evidence Summary: Arriaga crossed into Arizona from Mexico a couple of years ago and had been working as a farm laborer in California's Central Valley. Border Patrol made 396,579 arrests on the Mexican border in the 2018 fiscal year, up 30 percent from a 46-year low during the same period a year earlier. Despite a surge in asylum-seeking families from Central America in recent months, border arrests remain low by historical standards. The ACLU's letter asks Kent County to provide an explanation of what happened to Gomez-Ramos at their next County Commission meeting.

Claim: "During the recession, the consumer in his native perversity has begun to save. The savings rate is now 6.2 percent."
Evidence Summary: After two years of unified government under the party that formerly claimed to care about fiscal facts and rectitude, the nation faces a $1 trillion deficit. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. Some economists think the biggest risk is that fear of the unknown could snowball and turn worry of impending economic decline into a self-fulfilling prophecy. "There isn’t anything endemic in the economy that would point to a recession," says Peter Morici, professor emeritus at the University of Maryland.

Claim: I think it is unacceptable for the Chinese today to be larger in wind power and in solar panels and photovoltaic manufacturing than all of Europe put together -- forget the United States.
Evidence Summary: China's growing economic impact is increasingly affecting the earnings of American companies like Apple, as well as the broader stock market and economy. China's industrial roadmap may be the biggest stumbling block between the two countries. It has rankled the US, which sees the push as a direct challenge to American supremacy in key sectors such as aerospace, semiconductors and 5G. China has promised to open up more sectors of its economy to foreign competition, but that will be meaningless unless it allows its own companies to operate independently.

Claim: "At some point in their lives, 99% of women use birth control."
Evidence Summary: According to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, the rate of women between the ages of 40 to 44 becoming first-time moms has been rising since the early 80s. The reasons include careers, a less-than-ideal relationship status, or finances. Long-acting birth control such as implants and intrauterine devices, IUDS, are far more reliable, but they require a doctor visit and are not as popular. It's whether we as a country have the political will to support families, says Sasan.

Claim: "In the past 20 years, Egypt has made great strides in political and democratic reform."
Evidence Summary: The Amnesty statement comes on the eve of the eighth anniversary of the start of the 2011 uprising. El-Sissi has described the uprising as the "wrong remedy for a misdiagnosis" He has vowed, albeit implicitly, not to allow another one to take place, citing the turmoil in which the country was mired after the 2011 revolt. Sisi’s critics accuse him of cracking down on all dissent, but supporters say tough measures are needed to stabilize Egypt, which was rocked by years of unrest.

Claim: Says U.S. Rep. Steve Southerland voted to keep the shutdown going.
Evidence Summary: Rep. King's Future Should Be Up To His Iowa Constituents, Rep. Curtis says. Rep. Tom Suozzi of New York was one of the few lawmakers who went to the White House Wednesday to discuss the shutdown. NPR's Scott Horsley joins us now with the latest on the partial government shutdown. The president is demanding that Congress approve money for his border wall, but Democrats have been unwilling to do that.. A USA Today/Princeton Survey Research poll found most Americans blamed Republicans for the mess.

Claim: "In Rick Perrys Texas, we import nurses ... from other countries."
Evidence Summary: O’Rourke introduced his dental hygienist as part of his Instagram story “series” on “people of the border.” “My mom was a permanent resident when she was studying to become a citizen,” Diana said, with a dental mask and goggles covering her face. “The neighborhood really helped her out … so she could learn more English and that way she would be able to pass her citizenship,’ she said. The two met again at a rally at Northwestern Medicine Delnor Hospital in Geneva in August the following year.

Claim: "Sen. McCain's tax plan provides ""virtually nothing to the middle class."""
Evidence Summary: Freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy over who does and doesn’t understand how America’s tax system works. The wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries, says Julian Zelizer. Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda that could become a reality after 2020, he says. Zelizer: The signature achievement of the last Congress and the Trump administration, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, took us in the wrong direction.

Claim: "Phoenix, Arizona, is the No. 2 kidnapping capital of the world."
Evidence Summary: Crime in El Paso on the US side of the border remains relatively low. Violent crimes have fallen sharply from about 6,500 in 1993 to around 3,000 today. Beto O'Rourke lauded El Paso as the “safest city in America” as part of his senatorial election campaign in November. On today’s episode, hear from a sheriff in Arizona who supports Mr. Trump's plans to build a new wall on the U.S.-Mexico border.

Claim: Says a poll found him the only Republican candidate who could beat Barack Obama in Texas -- and by eight points.
Evidence Summary: A big reason Houston and its suburbs have been trending blue is because they're so diverse, a phenomenon across the country. Until recently, San Antonio was reliably red, but like much of the Southwest, it has been transformed into a battleground by its young and Latino population. In the midterms, every major statewide candidate, including Senator Ted Cruz and his Democratic opponent, Beto O’Rourke, poured resources into winning San Antonio. This sort of result isn’t unique to this race nor this party.

Claim: "President Ronald Reagan sent troops into conflict only in one circumstance, which was in Grenada We were in a peacekeeping setting in Lebanon."
Evidence Summary: Ronald Reagan was a practical man, and he knew, as he put it, that “because we’re a great nation, our challenges seem complex.” Reagan believed in the possibilities of a country that was forever reinventing itself. Mulvaney must be careful to avoid the fate of Richard Nixon’s chief H.R. Haldeman, who traded his West Wing office for a prison cell after his conviction for conspiracy and obstruction of justice in the Watergate scandal.

Claim: "The average student in Florida, what they actually pay out of pocket at our major universities for tuition is as much or less than what they spend on cellphones."
Evidence Summary: College tuition has been steadily skyrocketing for years and has no stop in sight. Financial aid programs from the federal government, provides low- and middle-income families with opportunities to attend higher education. Some of those struggling with housing responded to a recent survey that Goldrick-Rab conducted. It was the largest of its kind ever done, involving more than 43,000 students at 66 institutions. Nearly one in ten college students said they were homeless in the last year, meaning they had at least one night where they didn't know where they were going to sleep.

Claim: "Since 1968, more Americans have died from gunfire than died in all the wars of this countrys history."
Evidence Summary: "I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, or the sadness gripping their souls" "How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?" "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public." "Let's see if you're lucky." "I could feel the pistol against my head… and hear them pulling the trigger"

Claim: "The Atlanta streetcar is expected to create 930 jobs during construction, totaling more than 5,600 jobs over the next 20 years."
Evidence Summary: Uran said something with Metros could be revisited down the road but they will move forward to fulfill the role. January likely to be the hundredth consecutive month of job growth, according to ManpowerGroup. MIT's David Autor gave the prestigious Richard T. Ely lecture at the annual meeting of American economists in Atlanta. "These aren't your future AI jobs," says Manpower group's Becky Frankiewicz. "We're seeing growth across all sectors" and types of work, she says.

Claim: "Raising the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour, would help lift over a million Americans out of poverty."
Evidence Summary: House Democrats introduced the Raise the Wage Act on Jan. 16, which would raise the hourly federal minimum wage from $7.25 for most workers to $15 by 2024. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that raising the minimum wage would directly or indirectly lift the wages of 41.5 million people. This would generate $144bn in additional income for families who need it most, including 23.1 million women and 4.5m single parents. At $ 7.25, a full-time worker makes approximately $15,000 per year, a figure that is uncomfortably close to the federal poverty level.

Claim: "Says Secretary of State John Kerry, when he was a senator, flew to Managua and met with a communist dictator there, Daniel Ortega, and accused the Reagan administration of engaging in terrorism."
Evidence Summary: Activists and members of Nicaragua’s opposition celebrated the defection. Solís is a veteran Sandinista and Ortega confidant. “Increasingly isolated, all the regime has against its people are weapons,” tweeted Amnesty International’‘s America’'s chief, Erika Guevara-Rosas. ‘God willing a miracle will occur,’ he concluded, “God save Nicaragua.’ ‘There was no such coup, nor any external aggression, just the irrational use of force’

Claim: "NATO is opening up a major terror division. ... Im sure Im not going to get credit for it, but that was largely because of what I was saying and my criticism of NATO."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump's history of the Russia invasion of Afghanistan is, well, you know. The president was still stinging from criticism over his decision to withdraw American troops from Syria. A retired Marine Corps general and former head of U.S. Central Command is the latest four-star general to exit the administration. Turkey’s Erdogan snubs John Bolton as rift between NATO allies deepens, according to NBC's Carol Lee in Ankara. The NYT published an op-ed by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Claim: "Since Gina Raimondo took office, investment fees on the states pension portfolio have gone up from about $12 million annually to about $50 million."
Evidence Summary: Gina Raimondo, elected to a second term in November, revamped that state’s pension system by curbing costly benefits and offering employees 401(k)-style plans. “The pension hole is one of the most pressing problems the city will face during the next four years, a potential financial albatross that starts at nearly $300 million in 2020 and grows to nearly $1 billion by 2023,” John Byrne writes. The five candidates who appeared before the Tribune Editorial Board touched on many possible tracks to get there with little consensus on the best course of action.

Claim: "Under President Barack Obamas jobs bill, states would no longer have to lay off teachers, firefighters and police officers."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom laid out his new spending plans on Thursday. He offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. The Unions who represent those workers warn it could create a "brain drain," with the government no longer able to attract top talent. But at least one employer is taking advantage of the situation: school districts around D.C. and the rest of the U.S. The president's insistence on a barrier in his pitch to racial and ethnic minorities sounds better suited to 1919 than 2019.

Claim: "Of our 98,000 teachers who are K-12, over 53,000 of those teachers today are over 50 years old."
Evidence Summary: 94 percent of teachers surveyed say they became a teacher because they liked teaching. "It's really easy to teach to the test, (but) that doesn't help the kids grow or be part of the community," said Cullen Murphy, 44, who teaches seventh-grade math and science at East Hills Middle School in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. "I want very much for them to go to a public school just like I went to public schools," said Jocz, 39, who has two young children.

Claim: "Under President Obamas health-care reforms, the premium for an average plan for a family didnt go down by $2,500 per year, its gone up about $2,500 per year."
Evidence Summary: The tide has shifted, and the gains seen during the early years of Obamacare are being reversed. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014. The Trump administration has taken a number of steps that have had the effect of driving up premiums for exchange customers and those who buy policies directly from insurers or through brokers. People who earn more than four times the federal poverty level must pay full price for their coverage.

Claim: "The IRS also investigated liberal groups, groups that had progressive in their name. ... The IRS was basically looking at everybody."
Evidence Summary: Republican messaging on taxes peaked in mid-October, with a majority of ads mentioning the topic in some way. Only about one-third of GOP ads during the rest of the campaign mentioned taxes. Republicans ran more ads focused on immigration, frequently using the term “illegal” and warning of the dangers of sanctuary cities. Liberal groups accounted for 54% of the $150 million in dark-money spending in last year’s election cycle, conservative groups 31% and nonpartisan or bipartisan groups 15%. “All told, the report found that nonprofits that don’t disclose their donors have invested almost $1 billion in political ads and messaging”

Claim: "In a majority of states, you can now marry freely, but can still be fired for who you love."
Evidence Summary: Same-sex couples can marry in every state in our country, yet many of us still live in fear that we might be fired from our jobs or lose our homes. Mary Walsh is a retiree living with her wife, Beverly Nance, in Shrewsbury, St. Louis County, Missouri. Walsh: "This is not just about Bev and me — it’s about all LGBT people. No one should be denied the opportunity for housing because of who they are or whom they love"

Claim: "Rudy Giuliani is ""probably the most underqualified man since George Bush to seek the presidency."""
Evidence Summary: The press is now using anonymous sources to trash Donald Trump's lawyer. It's the dark side of D.C., the art of character assassination. Giuliani got this job because he knew Trump, because he was willing to work for free, and because he flatters and mirrors his client. He gets lost in his own incoherence. He keeps stumbling and having to backtrack. He seems not to have thought of it. “It could have been.” If there’s a strategy in these interviews, it's buried under layers of ineptitude.

Claim: "About half of the presidents have been governors; half of them, senators."
Evidence Summary: "There is power in elected members of the United States Congress speaking up in the interest of their constituency and the American public" "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done" "A president should demonstrate the essential qualities of honesty and integrity, and elevate the national discourse with comity and mutual respect" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before"

Claim: "After Britains vote to leave the European Union, within 24 hours, Americans lost $100 billion from our 401(k)s."
Evidence Summary: Whatever the outcome, the world's fifth-largest economy is set to take a massive hit. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 608 points, or almost 3.4 percent, the day after the vote. Global markets lost $2 trillion in value. The U.S. dollar increased in value, and "that's not always a good thing," said Tifphani White-King at Mazars USA. Policymakers, employers and others must find ways to bolster the financial security of tens of millions of Americans.

Claim: "Medicaid spending declined by 1.9 percent in 2012, the second such decline in 47 years."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. Trump said Americans "want to see what we're doing, like today we lowered prescription drug prices, first time in 50 years," according to a White House pool report. The president also took credit for the recent increase in generic drug approvals, which he said would help lower drug prices.

Claim: "Gov. Rick Scott cut the cost of prepaid college tuition by nearly $20,000."
Evidence Summary: Two dozen private institutions have cut tuition since 2016, according to the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. Tuition and fees at public and private schools rose at roughly three times the rate of inflation between 2007 and 2018. The widening price difference between private and public colleges has "even wealthy families starting to ask why pay four times as much for private," a researcher said. The nation has a 1.5 trillion-dollar debt in federal student-loans which are held by about 45 million borrowers.

Claim: "The city of Columbus would save $41 million a year if employees had to contribute to their own, guaranteed-check pensions."
Evidence Summary: Five mayoral hopefuls met with the Tribune Editorial Board in a livestreamed forum. We put our pension question to each, knowing how pols on the campaign trail in Illinois hate to discuss the bleak state of pensions. Illinois’s constitution won’t allow existing pensions to be diminished or impaired, but future pensions must be made affordable, and mayoral candidates must be forced to address that reality. The pension bucket will never be filled so long as the bucket has holes that drain it faster than money can be added.

Claim: "As Florida's CFO, I shut down Krakow's scam and refunded more than $1.2 million to Josephine and other victims of this con man."
Evidence Summary: “We’re happy to have the property sold to somebody else,” says the chairman of the committee. “I feel like people are looking at me as if I’m the one who’s to blame,’’ the chairman says. The committee has been accused of misappropriating funds to buy guns and other items. It is the latest in a series of high-profile incidents involving gun violence in the U.S. in recent years.

Claim: "The years that I was speaker, the Florida House consistently offered leaner budgets than the governor offered."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. The departing governor inherited a $28 billion deficit and left him a $14 billion surplus. He also created an $18 billion so-called rainy day fund to help the state get through what is widely viewed as an inevitable coming recession. The new governor has pledged to increase spending on early childhood education and a few other programs, but nonetheless said he would continue the fiscal practices followed by the departing governor.

Claim: "We are already almost halfway to our 2010 goal of creating 700,000 new jobs in seven years."
Evidence Summary: Over 100 companies have promised to re-skill a total of over 4.3 million workers. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’ Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Obama, who was elected in the teeth of the worst recession in living memory, added 10m jobs.

Claim: "The president said hes going to bring in 250,000 (Syrian and Iraqi) refugees into this country."
Evidence Summary: The president has misrepresented the people seeking admission to our country as part of his strategy of creating demons, which he says only he can protect the country against. At the same time, the left needs to confront the dimensions of the issue: The numbers of people from around the world who have good cause to seek protection here are far beyond what the country can absorb. Some reasonable method of deciding who can enter and what to do with those who cannot must be implemented. The president and the nation need to stop throwing volleys at each other over the wall.

Claim: "Research shows that a vast majority of arriving immigrants today come here because they believe that government is the source of prosperity, and thats what they support."
Evidence Summary: "We say no to building a wall and yes to building community," he says. "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many people agree 100 percent with what I’m doing" "I think it is really important that Parliament listens to people who are creating jobs in this region and across the country and act on it," he adds. "The wall remains the wrong direction for us as a country, something that will not help advance any of our national interests"

Claim: Newt Gingrichs immigration plan offers a new doorway to amnesty.
Evidence Summary: “Amnesty is not a good plan, @realDonaldTrump,” Tom Fitton, president of the right-wing activist group Judicial Watch, tweeted. Some Senate Republicans are growing weary of the stalemate with a handful of moderate and potentially vulnerable GOP members expressing some willingness to support the kind of approach Democrats are offering. Even though members of his party are softening, President Trump remains unwilling to budge. He refuses to support a bill that would reopen the government if it doesn’t include “barrier” funding.

Claim: "In Rhode Island, 9 percent of workers use the states temporary disability insurance program each year while in New Jersey, the rate is only 3 percent."
Evidence Summary: Vermont is offering to pay remote workers to move to the state. New Jersey requires all residents to have health insurance or pay a penalty. California Gov. Gavin Newsom is pushing for policies to expand health care access in his state. The uninsured rates in all three states are below the national average of 10 percent as of 2017, the most recent year for which Census data on the uninsured at the state level are available. The numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration.

Claim: "In just 17 years, spending for Social Security, federal health care and interest on the debt will exceed ALL tax revenue!"
Evidence Summary: As deficits balloon following their tax cuts, GOP leaders suggest curbing the massive Social Security and Medicare programs. But the demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget, and the government projects the number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who advised President George W. Bush, agrees that governments led by either party will eventually need more revenue.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton has taken over $800,000 from lobbyists."
Evidence Summary: "I think you do need to get money out of politics," Gillibrand said. "Can you answer my question," Wallace repeated. "Yes, just let me finish," she said. Warren, meanwhile, shows no sign of letting up on her message. She mentioned it at every stop of her three-day sojourn across Iowa, and is expected to do the same when she campaigns in New Hampshire on Saturday. "It’s kind of amusing that Sen. Warren herself has been perfectly happy to take money from billionaires for her Senate campaign," Phillips said.

Claim: Says Gov. Rick Perry has been begging for the federal government to send the Coast Guard to patrol two lakes on the U.S.-Mexico border.
Evidence Summary: In San Diego, hundreds of Customs and Border Protection agents echo the same line: the fence is not secure and we need a wall. In all, an estimated 800,000 federal employees from nine shuttered federal agencies have been furloughed or are working without pay. The White House has asked the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to look into projects approved in a bill providing disaster relief for Puerto Rico, Texas, California and Florida. It’s unclear when the shutdown could end.

Claim: "On the VA: Over 300,000 veterans have died waiting for care."
Evidence Summary: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs has struggled to fulfill its mission. The department has been dogged by patient backlogs, ethical scandals and unsatisfactory performance. The VA system has been a scandal-ridden mess for years. The whole purpose of a V.A. system is to assure our vets the best possible care, not the worst, writes John Sutter.. The Mission Act won the endorsement of a host of veterans groups. It's one of the reasons Americans should be wary of ever embracing government-run health care as the norm.

Claim: "In 2005, Dan Branch tried to expand third-trimester abortions in Texas."
Evidence Summary: Sarah Valliere is a family medicine physician and a fellow with Physicians for Reproductive Health. Valliere: In 2005, I learned that abortion was not only an option, but it was my option. She says she will join over a hundred thousand Americans in Washington to March for Life. "We march to build a culture of life, to end abortion and in protest of the court’s deeply flawed decision," Valliere says. The March for life will take place on January 21 in Washington.

Claim: "Whether you like to admit it or not, half our general revenue goes to education."
Evidence Summary: Teachers overwhelmingly see public schools as worth the tax money that funds them, 78 percent to 19 percent. Today's teachers say the public schools are doing a better job of educating students than they did 10 years ago. Public generally agreed, by 68 percent to 25 percent in the September survey. "I don't know of another profession where the employees bring materials into the workplace, and they pay for it out of their own pocket," Rooker said. "When was the last time you had to take a piece of sheet metal into GM?"

Claim: "There are 31 other states and 10,000 other cities that have the same type of policies that we just passed, referring to North Carolinas House Bill 2."
Evidence Summary: New Mexico joined a growing number of states that have introduced legislation to ban gay and transgender panic defenses. In Virginia, nondiscrimination legislation, which enjoys bipartisan support, may come up for a vote in the House of Delegates this year. “We are seeing signals we might not see that kind of a fight,” Freedom for All Americans is also watching the Ohio Fairness Act and the Florida Competitive Workforce Act. In 2018 alone, 15 states adopted 27 new limits on abortion and family planning.

Claim: "If Milwaukee approves reducing its maximum forfeiture for marijuana possession to $50, the city would have 23 different bicycle violations that have a higher forfeiture."
Evidence Summary: Marijuana is becoming mainstream as voters across the country approve ballot questions for legalization or medical use. States stand to collect billions of dollars in tax revenue from legalized marijuana sales, and much governmental money will be saved by not prosecuting sales and use of the drug. But what about the associated medical risks from increasing usage? This is a critical question we must not ignore. Brian L. Cox is a freelance reporter for the Pioneer Press in Chicago. The number of marijuana defendants in the U.S. is on the rise, he says.

Claim: The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office received zero complaints about the Washington Redskins name.
Evidence Summary: U.S. Supreme Court agrees to hear case involving clothing brand called "FUCT" Court will decide whether law that blocks trademarks on profane words violates free speech rights. At issue is a provision of U.s. trademark law that lets the trademark office deny requests for trademarks on “immoral’ and “scandalous” words and symbols. The justices were unanimous in ruling that the prohibition on disparaging trademarks violated the First Amendment. But they split 4 to 4 in most of their reasoning, making it hard to analyze how the decision applies.

Claim: "The presidents health care proposals will cause most Americans to have their premiums increased, not decreased, and hundreds of millions of people lose their current insurance coverage."
Evidence Summary: The proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. President Trump, who once predicted "Obamacare" would "implode" or "explode," took credit for calm insurance markets.About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The U.S. is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage.

Claim: "Romney failed to take action against ""sanctuary cities"" in Massachusetts."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney's op-ed was a shallow political miscalculation and a pathetic attempt to be the center of attention. Romney would rather bathe in the Washington swamp that has made him so comfortable for so long instead of taking on the failed status quo alongside President Trump. The new junior Senator from Utah can help secure our border, renegotiate bad trade deals, reform our broken health care system, and work to stop endless wars and other wrongheaded foreign policy decisions – if he believes these things.

Claim: "Says New Jersey is down nearly 200,000 jobs from its pre-recession peak and with Gov. Chris Christie New Jersey has trailed the rest of America when it comes to unemployment for 12 consecutive months."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon, saying the "tremendous" jobs number was partly due to companies such as auto manufacturers repatriating.

Claim: "Seniors with coverage under Medicare Advantage will give up ""more than their share"" because of health care reform"
Evidence Summary:  Medicare for All envisions the federal government spending a lot more money on health care. David Frum: Many readers of these columns have told them they are just hanging on until they turn 65. He says in the early 2000s Congress passed legislation to make Medicare beneficiaries pay more for their benefits.Frum: Who could argue with expanding a program that America’s seniors generally like and indeed have come to rely on? He says even the architects of Medicare for all plans haven’t fully worked out how their systems would function.

Claim: "Over 12,000 school kids were arrested in Florida. It makes Florida the nations leader in that area."
Evidence Summary: The Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Commission's 446-page report details what members believe happened before, during and after the Feb. 14 shooting attack. It documents extensive shortcomings in the school’s security measures prior to the shooting, and outlines deficiencies in the police response. The report, which the commission sent to Gov. Rick Scott, offers dozens of recommendations about how the high school and school districts around the state could improve safety. It offers a searing critique of the school and sheriff department's ability to stymie the bloodshed.

Claim: "Payday lenders profit from the poor by charging 1,000-plus percent interest."
Evidence Summary: Payday loan firm Provident advertised 535% APR loans over the Christmas period. Provident’s mail-shot featured photographs of a small girl smiling and wearing a Christmas cracker hat. Payday lending has been criticised for charging very high interest rates and trapping borrowers for months. Complaints about payday lenders in Britain have rocketed as concerns about the solvency of firms and lax lending practices in the sector persist, a UK financial watchdog said on Tuesday. The Financial Ombudsman Service typically deals annually with around 100,000 complaints that financial firms have not been able to resolve.

Claim: "The Social Security trust fund is sound. Without anything being done, it would function well into 2038; and even after that time with no changes, we could pay 80 percent of the benefits that people have earned."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "And I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments," he adds. "Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I”m doing," the president says of his tax plan. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," Trump adds.

Claim: It is a commitment voters take very seriously: The only incumbent in Ohio to break his Pledge and vote for Ted Stricklands income tax hike was defeated soundly on Tuesday.
Evidence Summary: A new law in Michigan makes it harder to gather signatures that would qualify a proposal for the ballot. A provision that says no more than 15 percent of the signatures collected can be from any single congressional district is unconstitutional. Credible primary challenges, or even just the threat of them, can work wonders. Instead of merely asking a member of Congress to do the right thing, activists can convey a much more persuasive message: Do the right things or we’ll replace you with someone who will.

Claim: The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown.
Evidence Summary: The agency responsible for investigating defects in the nation's cars, trucks and SUVs does not plan to do so during the government shutdown. Miami International Airport temporarily closed Terminal G because TSA workers called in sick during the shutdown. The George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston was forced to close one of its security screening checkpoints on Sunday because of a shortage of workers. Around 800,000 federal workers missed their first paychecks on Friday, although Congress passed a bill last week to grant back pay to those workers.

Claim: "[W]e see Americas prison population exploding, with America having a greater percentage of its people behind bars than any other nation in the world!"
Evidence Summary: When Barr was attorney general in the 1990s, dogmatic, tough-on-crime policies held virtually the same position that progressive policies do now. Barr led the charge toward tightening the grip on young black men, a group perceived as "superpredators" But even then, some people recognized that too many Americans were being incarcerated. The lifetime likelihood that an individual born in 2001 will end up in prison also varies greatly by race. It's one in 17 for white males and one in three for black males.

Claim: "Says that in a hearing, Rep. Gabrielle Giffords suggested to Gen. David Petraeus that the Army put more emphasis on less environmentally damaging methods, like stabbing or clubbing enemy forces in order to minimize the carbon output."
Evidence Summary: The report lists 79 installations and whether they face both current and potential (within the next 20 years) effects of climate change. It does not prioritize them by risk or offer further details on all but a handful of installations. Rhode Island Sen. Jack Reed, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said the report inadequately treats climate change "as a back burner issue" The criticism over the report is the latest attempt by Democrats to make climate change a central issue of their legislative agenda.

Claim: "Every single one of the 41 Republican senators who just blocked a raise in the minimum wage will receive a $2,800 cost-of-living adjustment on January 1, 2015."
Evidence Summary: Democratic lawmakers are expected to introduce new legislation that would bring the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2024. The House measure had 181 co-sponsors as of Wednesday. It would need 218 votes to pass. The federal wage floor currently prevails in the 21 states that don’t already mandate a higher one. It's expected to give roughly 40 million Americans a bump in pay, according to a press advisory. Once fully phased in, the average affected worker would see about a $3,500 increase in annual pay.

Claim: "In Texas, the No. 1 name for new male babies many of whom will vote one day is Jose."
Evidence Summary: Julian Castro, former Housing Secretary under President Obama as well as former San Antonio mayor, is scheduled to officially announce his presidential run plans this weekend. The only Latino in the race, so far, is a military vet and former West Virginia state senator, Richard Ojeda (pronounced Oh-JED-ah rather than the Spanish pronunciation of Oh-HAY-dah).Higher Latino turnout means that there are voter lists with many more Hispanics on them that can be more easily contacted for turnout.

Claim: Marco Rubio voted against authorizing President Obama to strike Syria after Assad used chemical weapons on his own people.
Evidence Summary: President Obama was hardly “timid” about asserting U.S. power in Syria. Obama sent about 35,000 additional American troops to Afghanistan and authorized a new strategy. Sen. Marco Rubio described the withdrawal as "a major mistake" that would "haunt the administration" The Republican-controlled Senate voted 57 to 42 against the attempt by McConnell to table the resolution crafted by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. The Republicans who defied McConnell on the procedural vote were Sens. Joe Kennedy, Susan Collins, Marco Rubio and Tom Cotton.

Claim: "Under the Cash for Clunkers program, all we've got to do is ... go to a local junkyard, all you've got to do is tow it to your house. And you're going to get $4,500."
Evidence Summary: “You have to do what it takes to support yourselves and your families,” he said. “The issues that we face as a country today are the issues that have been in my wheelhouse, that I’ve worked on my whole life.” “One of these boys rarely saw his father and was basically estranged from his mother. I spent a lot of time teaching him welding and auto mechanics. One day, he asked me to co-sign a loan for an old truck. That was one of the best things I did for that boy because he knew I had faith in him’

Claim: "While our people work longer hours for lower wages, almost all new income goes to the top 1 percent."
Evidence Summary: For the tippy-top 0.001 percent — the 2,300 richest Americans — incomes have grown by more than 600 percent. Just as the point of taxing carbon is not to raise revenue but to reduce carbon emissions, high tax rates for sky-high incomes do not aim at funding Medicare for All. They aim at preventing an oligarchic drift that, if left unaddressed, will continue undermining the social compact and risk killing democracy. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few."

Claim: "In the past year, more than 20 percent of Americans have changed their mind about the war in Afghanistan. They conclude we shouldn't be there."
Evidence Summary: A majority of Americans would support a presidential decision to withdraw troops from Afghanistan within a year. Few leaders have taken a strong stance toward ending the war. Democrats in particular find themselves in an awkward spot, historically skeptical but inclined to automatically oppose any Trump policy. It would be easy to dismiss President Trump’s decision to begin withdrawing from Afghanistan as simply a political decision in which Trump is making good on a campaign promise. But the reality is that it reflects what Americans want because they understand that a continued U.S. military presence Afghanistan no longer is in our national security interest.

Claim: "In the last five years, 28,000 people have been killed along the U.S.-Mexico border."
Evidence Summary: Trump: Migrants are bringing disease into the U.S. The facts: There's no evidence of this, according to a report released last month. Traffic has dropped 92 percent there over 23 years amid a border-wide trend of fewer border crossings. The president “needs to create a sense of crisis to justify this costly boondoggle,” Sykes said. “Are we really seriously now talking about the military coming in and enforcing eminent domain? Does the Republican Party really want to preside over soldiers taking away Americans’ private property?"

Claim: "The Family Research Council, according to some government agencies, is a terrorist group."
Evidence Summary: The Muslims of America said the arrests of three Rochester-area men and a 16-year-old sent shockwaves through the community. The small community has been dogged by allegations on right-wing websites that it is a terrorist training camp. "It is beyond tragic that our nation continues to fester with Islamophobia, hate and religious intolerance," the group said in a prepared statement. It is appropriate to use the same standards for these legitimate groups that we’d ask of mainstream Muslim organizations in response to Islamist attacks.

Claim: "Says Rep. Jim Weidner proposed a bill taking away health care for 80,000 of Oregons children."
Evidence Summary: Many states, however, have enacted laws that prevent ACA plans from covering abortion. The number of uninsured children in America was around 10 million before CHIP was enacted. A prominent Democrat criticized the administration's move on premiums. The decision sent a strong message to Iowa women that their constitutional rights are important and their healthcare decisions should be made by them, not politicians, the Senate Democratic leader said. The county prosecutor says Smitherman is being placed in a pretrial diversion program and charges will be dropped if she maintains a clean record.

Claim: "The median male worker in this country has not seen a raise, inflation adjusted, for 30 years, basically."
Evidence Summary: Wages in manufacturing suffered one of the largest declines in real wages, which slipped 2.4 percent last year. Transportation witnessed the biggest dip, with real wages losing 3.9 percent compared with a year earlier. By some measures, our economy appears to have been booming for years, but too many American workers still don’t enjoy financial security. The average pretax income of the top 10th of Americans has doubled since 1980. The top 1% has more than tripled, and that of thetop 0.001% has risen more than sevenfold.

Claim: "Unlike the gridlock in Washington, more than 80 percent of the bills we passed during this General Assembly had bipartisan support."
Evidence Summary: An “exhausted majority” that comprises two-thirds of Americans dislikes polarization. President Trump’s remarks Saturday were a reminder that compromise is possible. Faith, law enforcement and business leaders – to say nothing of Americans overall – want our leaders to reach the compromises that move our nation forward. In between accusations and name calling, some lawmakers have nurtured bipartisanship – through activities like exercising, praying and eating. Back in 2013, those across-the-aisle relationships in Congress helped end a shutdown.

Claim: Josh Mandel is lying about his own record. The rating of Ohios investment fund has NOT improved.
Evidence Summary: A downgrade of the nation's pristine credit rating could lead to higher borrowing costs for the U.S. Treasury, companies and consumers. A number of government agencies have not been funded since Dec. 21 amid President Trump's insistence that Congress provide $5.7 billion for a wall along the border with Mexico. Microsoft pledges $500 million to address a problem its own success helped create: the severe need for affordable housing in the Seattle area. The money will provide market-rate or below-market-rate loans to developers who want to build affordable housing.

Claim: "Rick Scott took $200,000 from a family that leased land for drilling and now he is trying to hide from it."
Evidence Summary: Gowdy says that Scott, who is normally quiet and reluctant to insert himself into fights, chooses when to speak on issues involving race. Gowdy said he once asked Scott why he drives a car with a U.S. Senate license plate when many members prefer not to be noticed while on the road. Scott responded by asking him, “how many times have you been stopped? I want people to know that I’m not a threat to them when they pull me over”

Claim: "At the beginning of the last decade ... America had a budget surplus of over $200 billion. By the time I took office, we had a one-year deficit of over $1 trillion and projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next decade."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026. President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was “Read my lips, no new taxes.” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and Mr. Bush wasn’t re-elected.

Claim: "The president has had 1,540 of his nominations confirmed, only four defeated."
Evidence Summary: Trump misstates the Electoral College vote in his 2016 presidential race against Hillary Clinton. Trump: "I won everything I did, and I won, andI won easily — 306-223, I believe" "I am proud to be here to announce that I will do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes to remove a president," he says. "He has already started work and now waits for the results to be confirmed. We are serene and we let the process follow its course"

Claim: U.S. taxpayers are being forced to fund Feisal Abdul Raufs trip to the Middle East.
Evidence Summary: Pompeo To Outline U.S.' Middle East Policy During Speech In Egypt. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's extensive trip to the Middle East takes him to Egypt. He is going to use the visit to give a speech in which he's expected to outline U.s. policy for the region. American taxpayers send more foreign aid to Egypt than to any other nation except Israel, but America's nearly one and a half billion dollars a year goes to a regime accused of abuses.

Claim: "Milwaukee County taxpayers paid $370,000 to settle a lawsuit over a decision by Sheriff David A. Clarke Jr. to use untrained corrections officers rather than deputies to patrol the lakefront."
Evidence Summary: Cook County commissioners this week are set to vote on a proposed $24 million settlement to three men who spent roughly 15 years in prison for a 1994 rape and murder. The city of Chicago previously approved a $31 million settlement for four African-American men whose convictions were overturned in the Englewood murder. Saunders, Thames and Richardson sued the county based on the allegation that prosecutors helped railroad them. The settlement is on the Cook County finance committee’s agenda for Wednesday. If approved by finance commissioners, it would move to the full board for consideration on Thursday.

Claim: "Democratic presidents ""have been considerably more effective at creating private-sector jobs."""
Evidence Summary: Manufacturing jobs grew at the fastest rate in 23 years and the unemployment rate for Americans without a high school diploma reached the lowest point ever recorded. The Wall Street Journal reports that wages rose 3.1 percent -- the biggest jump since 2009 -- and that "low-skilled workers are among the biggest beneficiaries" Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being “the greatest jobs president that God ever created’

Claim: "Joe Biden ""voted against the first Gulf War. He opposed the surge. He wanted to partition Iraq."""
Evidence Summary: David Leonhardt: Joe Biden is the sure bet for the general election. He says Biden's nostalgia for the bipartisan days of yore will crash headfirst into the hyperpartisan days of the present. Biden’s desire to play the role of the elder statesman who can unify the country by reaching across the aisle is an understandable impulse, Leonhardt says. Even if Democrats can overlook “Joe being Joe” comments, they will be less forgiving with his voting record, he says.

Claim: "Military ""recruiting went on at Harvard every single day throughout the time (Kagan) was there."""
Evidence Summary: Army recruiters in Seattle can earn a Friday off for each new soldier they enlist. With a week left in the month, he wrote the station’s goal — five recruits — on a white board. “What do we need to make mission?” he asked. One recruiter responded with a shrug, “A miracle.” The Army is not quite counting on miracles, but after falling 6,500 soldiers short of its goal nationwide in 2018, it is trying a new strategy.

Claim: "Says David Perdue wants to abolish the U.S. Department of Education, which would cost Georgia schools $1 billion a year and eliminate millions in student loans."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State graduates more black students than any other nonprofit educational institution in the U.S. Nearly 60 percent of Georgia State’s students are eligible for Pell Grants, meaning many come from households making $40,000 or less. Some Illinois legislators of both parties have been exploring an ambitious restructuring. In Indiana, Gov. Holcomb announced plans to pay off $140 million in teacher pension obligations owed by school districts over the next two years. The Republican governor says 100 percent of that money should go toward teacher pay raises.

Claim: "...Over 30 years, federal spending on education has grown by 375 percent, but test scores remain flat."
Evidence Summary: According to one recently published study, funding for California schools falls 38% short of where it should be to meet needs defined by the state itself. Poorer students benefit from additional state and federal grant money, but their needs are also higher and the shortfall reaches as high as 47% at the bottom end of the socio-economic pile. While richer California students are keeping up with their peers in learning to read, lower-income students are as much as one grade behind the national average. “The problem,” Iwazeki said, “is there is no silver bullet.”

Claim: "Says allowing the payroll tax holiday to expire would end up costing another estimated 900,000 jobs in 2012."
Evidence Summary: Kevin Hassett, the White House’s chief economic adviser, suggested in an interview on Thursday that the nearly 800,000 federal workers who aren’t getting paid are “better off” because they’re on an extended vacation. Hassett later went on to speculate that the shutdown will have no major, long-term consequences even though he said the shutdown has cost the economy around $20 billion through Friday. The partial shutdown, which began on Dec. 22, is now the longest in U.S. history.

Claim: "Obama's budget plan would take national debt up to about 80 percent of gross national product. ... Historically, it's been about 40 percent."
Evidence Summary: The nation faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget, and the government projects the number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. That's why Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who advised President George W. Bush, agrees governments led by either party will eventually need more revenue.

Claim: "President Barack Obama's ""initial response when we heard about the Christmas underwear bomber"" was to say that ""this was the act of an isolated extremist."""
Evidence Summary: It is untrue that Obama claimed radical Islamic terrorism does not stem from ideology. The word ideology appears nowhere in that earlier speech. What he said was that the 9/11 terrorists did not represent the full face of Islam. Like all forms of terrorism, right-wing terrorism is horrible because it kills innocent people and frightens far more. In the U.S. it is potentially worse than other forms, however, because it taps into broader political tensions and because Trump’s reaction exacerbates the problems.

Claim: "Says Sen. Sherrod Brown admitted that his $787 billion stimulus law failed and after specifically attacking Republicans for wanting to lower Americans taxes, (he) now claims that his stimulus bill didnt do enough to lower taxes."
Evidence Summary: The stimulus was an unprecedented exercise in deficit spending. Republicans savaged it in unison as a Porkulus boondoggle. Democrats mostly quibbled about it as either too small or too big. The result was a cacophony of he-said-she-said coverage in which both sides sounded negative. The public’s reaction to the idea of economic recovery legislation, which had started out positive, turned sour within weeks. The Democrats passed the stimulus in the House without a single Republican vote.

Claim: "In the 1950s, ""A lot of people got rich and they had to pay a top tax rate of 90 percent."""
Evidence Summary: From the 1930s to the 1980s, the United States came as close as any democratic country ever did to imposing a legal maximum income. The point of high top marginal income tax rates is to constrain the immoderate, and especially unmerited, accumulation of riches. That few people faced the 90 percent top tax rates was not a bug; it was the feature that caused sky-high incomes to largely disappear. During most of the 1950s, when the U.S. economy dominated the world, the top rate was 91%.

Claim: "The Charleston, S.C., shootershould have never been given a gun, but the universal background check was not fast enough."
Evidence Summary: Current law requires only federally licensed gun dealers to perform background checks. Gun safety groups say an expansion of the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) is long overdue. Since 1994, background checks have blocked an estimated 3 million prohibited gun purchases, Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence says. Under current regulations, as many as 1 in 5 firearm transfers takes place without a background check, the group says. "We say enough is enough by finally bringing common-sense bipartisan background check legislation to the floor of the House," Giffords says.

Claim: Sixty-five percent of the Iraqi people now say it's okay to shoot an American soldier.
Evidence Summary: Syria's state news agency and a war monitor say an airstrike in the country's east on the last area held by the Islamic State group has killed at least 20 people. Both outlets blamed the U.S.-led coalition that has been providing air cover to the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces in their months-long offensive to capture the area. A Syrian war monitor, the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, reported earlier that at least two US soldiers were killed in the suicide attack outside a restaurant in Manbij.

Claim: "About 230,000 people that were on unemployment when I took office are not on unemployment now."
Evidence Summary: "Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many of thosePeople agree 100 percent with what I’m doing," he said. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. The legislation simplified the federal tax code and encouraged entrepreneurs to launch and grow their businesses.

Claim: "One person, Kathleen Sebelius, was going to determine whether or not 10-year-old lung patient Sarah Murnaghan would live or die."
Evidence Summary: The judge said she had "considered anxiously" whether there was a factor that might "tip the balance" in favour of prolonging the patient's life. Mrs Justice Knowles said the patient had worked as a carer for disabled people and had said she would "never want to be like that" "As far as I am concerned Dr Barton didn't shorten any lives on my ward," she said. "They were nursed to the best of my ability and they had what every patient is entitled to"

Claim: Local law enforcement . . . will have access to the [Obamacare] Data Hubs treasure trove of personal info.
Evidence Summary: The danger of mission creep in NYPD surveillance with its powerful new tools is most acute for Muslim and immigrant New Yorkers. Despite New York City’s promise of being a “sanctuary city,” its much-lauded 2017 privacy protection legislation largely exempted the NYPD. Currently, nothing in city law bars the NYPD from sharing information with ICE or other federal officials. The new convenience has raised questions about whether the Census Bureau is prepared for the potential risk to people's privacy.

Claim: "During his tenure as mayor, he saw Houstons crime rates drop to the lowest levels in more than 25 years."
Evidence Summary: McCarthy tells voters he’ll go back to using data to target gangs. He also emphasizes the city's progress. "Because a very complex problem didn't go away overnight," he says, "doesn't mean that things aren't happening" Barr said the crime rate has fallen substantially since he last served as attorney general in 1992. "We cannot allow the progress we have made to be reversed," he said. "In moments like these, we come together in order to mend and heal broken hearts," a pastor said.

Claim: "John McCain, ""one of the richest people in a Senate filled with millionaires,"" says the solution to the housing crisis is for people to get a ""second job"" and ""skip their vacations."""
Evidence Summary: The tech boom has taken off in and around San Francisco in the last decade. The city’s housing prices have shot up as an influx of high-paid tech workers settled in the region. Many of them have opted to live in San Francisco and take free shuttles provided by their jobs to Silicon Valley, a suburban area south of the city. This amplifies the pressure on housing in the city, where strict zoning laws and rent control policies were already linked to expensive housing costs.

Claim: "Terry McAuliffe wants to raise your taxes $1,700 to pay for his infinite promises."
Evidence Summary: Former President George W. Bush is running for re-election in 2020. He says Democrats need to be "big, bold and optimistic" about the future. But he says the party must also be honest about the need to raise taxes to pay for it. The party is raising money to support candidates who share his vision for the country, he says. The campaign is also raising money for the Democratic National Committee, which he says he will not run for in 2020, but for other causes.

Claim: "Hypocrisy at the Clinton Foundation: Top male staff made on average $218,029 while top female staff made $153,014 from 2010-2014."
Evidence Summary: Citigroup reveals female employees earn 29 percent less than men do. People of color earn 7 percent less in the U.S. than their white colleagues. Thousands of women were systematically underpaid at Oracle, a new class-action complaint alleges. The Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates the country's biggest firms, has revealed it pays its male staff a fifth more than its female staff. The watchdog's median gender pay gap was 21.2% in 2018 - up from 20.9% in 2017 despite a pledge to improve.

Claim: "Since the federal Violence Against Women Act was adopted in 1994, cases of domestic violence have fallen by 67 percent."
Evidence Summary: Violence Against Women Act, or VAWA, enacted in 1994, provides protections for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. The act also provides funding for social service agencies and programs that support survivors of such violence, which must be renewed annually. In 2012, the Australian government launched a dedicated anti-violence policy, the National Plan to Reduce Violence Against Women and their Children. However, Associate Prof Phillips said many frontline services, such as women's shelters, had not improved since then.

Claim: "We are ""borrowing Saudi money for Saudi oil"" with the result being ""dependency and debt."""
Evidence Summary: Saudi Arabia will seek a fresh injection of dollars by selling bonds Wednesday, banking documents show. The kingdom’s ability to raise new debt after the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Lawmakers from both parties have vowed to push for legislation that would cut off arms sales to Saudi Arabia. Saudi bond sale would extend a borrowing spree that began in 2016 when, faced with a drop in oil income, the country turned to international debt markets to shore up its finances and bankroll its diversification efforts.

Claim: "Says there are homes for sale on and around (Oswego Lake) right now for under $150,000 that anyone is welcome to buy."
Evidence Summary: With cash to spend, and in temporary quarters where they may not be able to remain for the long term, many are buying now. Many of them have already received payouts from insurance companies for their homes in Paradise, Magalia and other communities. The deal is a bid to revive an area that has undergone depopulation in recent years, with residents moving to bigger cities. A home or condominium was “affordable” if a buyer earning 80 percent of the area median income could make monthly payments on a 30-year, fixed rate mortgage.

Claim: "Since the president became the president, we have lost 3.3 million jobs in the private sector. But you know whos done OK and whos not complaining today? The public sector. Weve gained 590,000 public sector jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. But even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’

Claim: Chris Christie has not increased the taxes on anyone.
Evidence Summary: Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie was booted from his job as Donald Trump’s transition team chairman. Now, Christie has revealed that he blames Kushner for his ousting, alleging that Kushner held a grudge from when Christie prosecuted his father, Charles Kushner, a decade earlier. In his upcoming book, Let Me Finish, Christie blasts Kushner. Christie alleges that Steve Bannon, Trump's then campaign chief, confirmed that Kushner was behind Christie's dismissal. Christie wrote of how Trump encouraged him to wear a long tie to make him look thinner during the 2016 presidential campaign.

Claim: "Since 1978, college tuition nationwide has gone up something like four times the rate of inflation."
Evidence Summary: The federal government, wittingly or not, has helped make universities' tuition hikes possible by subsidizing student debt. More access to college funding from the government has emboldened colleges to hike up prices, since they know borrowers can rely on the government to meet costs. Students have borrowed more in response — but paying off higher balances takes longer. Only 44 percent of borrowers have repaid at least one dollar of principal within three years of beginning their payments. The massive debt burden — combined with a difficult job market for college grads — would increase the risks of default.

Claim: "Says Sen. Rob Portman said, It would be irresponsible not to cut Medicare."
Evidence Summary: Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Rep. John Khanna are fighting over a House rule change. The rule change would allow the White House to make across-the-board cuts to other programs if any new deficit-increasing legislation is enacted. The Pelosi-backed principle is a "dark political maneuver designed to hamstring progress on healthcare" and other legislation, the new congresswoman said. A study released in July by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University said the plan would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years.

Claim: "Most of, if not all of, the [DeKalb school construction] projects always came in on or were under budget."
Evidence Summary: Wesley: "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes" "I really want to see, this year, we adopt that process with community input on determining the priorities on which we spend," he says. "We often think we [know] our constituents and know what they want, but we find out the priorities of the community can be different," he adds. "This type of budgeting allows total community input and will reduce our spend"

Claim: (Palin) supported right-wing extremist Pat Buchanan for president in 2000.
Evidence Summary: Trump tweets op-ed by Pat Buchanan, whom he derided as a 'Hitler lover' in 1999. Buchanan posted an article on the anti-immigration site Vdare.com that implored Trump to declare a national emergency on the southern border. Trump has publicly considered such a declaration as a way to go around Congress in order to secure funding for a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. Geraldine Ferraro and Sarah Palin are the only two women who have been major party vice presidential nominees.

Claim: "Washington, D.C., had some of the strictest gun laws in the country. And when they passed them, violence skyrocketed."
Evidence Summary: The weekend of Aug. 4, 2018, brought a stunning surge in gun violence to Chicago. 75 people shot, 13 of them fatally. The number of homicides in Washington, D.C., soared 38% last year, a setback in the capital’s safety record that defies the national trend of fewer murders. After a while, these events cease to shock; but they should not cease to cause us to re-examine what the government has done to us. The government cheerfully calls these venues “gun-free zones.” They should be called killing zones.

Claim: Seven presidents before (Barack Obama) -- Republicans and Democrats -- tried to expand health care to all Americans.
Evidence Summary: One-third of Senate Democrats and more than half of House Democrats have endorsed Medicare-for-all proposals. Such proposals would lead to more government involvement in health care, and bring the U.S. a step closer to mostly socialized systems such as the British National Health Service. Their popularity is driven by frustration with the current private insurance system, which remains costly on the individual market despite ObamaCare’s goals. But Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory.

Claim: "If you put the $47 billion in revenue (raised over 10 years by the Buffett rule) into infrastructure you could create 611,000 infrastructure jobs."
Evidence Summary: "Many growing businesses like ours are continuing to invest in the future regardless," Tesla says. Trump has not moved an inch toward his campaign pledge to spend $1tn to reconstruct the nation’s roadways, waterworks and bridges. "We are investing millions of pounds to build the best railway Scotland has ever had," he says. "The net effect is that Tesla must work much harder than other manufacturers to survive while building affordable, sustainable products," he adds. "This would generate $144bn in additional income for families who need it most," Tesla adds.

Claim: "Starting in December 2007, 1.4 million jobs were created in Texas. In that same period, the rest of the country lost 400,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017 and 1.6 percent in 2016.

Claim: "The CBO, the Congressional Budget Office has said that Obamacare will kill 800,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The administration had initially counted just the impact from the 800,000 federal workers not receiving their paychecks. The original estimate that the partial shutdown would subtract 0.1 percentage point from growth every two weeks has now been doubled to a 0. 1 percentage point subtraction every week. With no deal to fund the government on the horizon, an estimated 800,.000 federal employees likely won't get paid until late January. "If we don't have an agreement I think by midnight on the 8th, which is Tuesday, then payroll will not go out as originally planned on Friday night," White House Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney said.

Claim: "Thompson ""voted against $250,000 caps on damages (and) almost anything that would make our legal system fairer."""
Evidence Summary: The lawsuit stems from an Aug. 29 column written by Cottle titled ” Well, at least Sheriff Joe isn’t going to Congress.” The piece was published just after Arpaio - who dubbed himself America's toughest sheriff - lost a Republican primary race for the U.S. Senate. Arpaio claims the column damaged his credibility to secure funding from donors for a potential 2020 Senate run and “carefully and maliciously calculated to damage and injure” his reputation. Harris' prosecution of Daniel Larsen – serving a 28-year sentence for possession of a concealed weapon – also raised questions.

Claim: "The proposed education changes ""will not cut one teacher's pay."""
Evidence Summary: The agreement makes key concessions on issues like support staff and class sizes. The deal guarantees a full-time nurse at every school over time, as well as an increase in librarians and school counselors. The pact also calls on Garcetti to support a ballot initiative going to voters in November 2020 that would roll back Proposition 13 property tax limits on commercial buildings. "This is not just for teachers. It's also for counselors, nurses, psychologists and social workers," said 10th grade English teacher O'Brien.

Claim: "Says Scott Walker wants to ban common forms of birth control, including the pill."
Evidence Summary: California and other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. The rules allow employers and insurers to decline to provide birth control if doing so violates their "religious beliefs" or "moral convictions" The rules were to come into effect nationwide from Monday. A federal judge on Sunday temporarily blocked Trump administration rules allowing employers to refuse to provide free birth control from taking effect Monday in 13 states. The regulations, which the Trump administration announced in October 2017, widened the pool of employers that are allowed to claim exemption from providing contraceptive coverage.

Claim: Jason Kander supports [Obamas] plan to bring the remaining suspected terrorists to U.S. soil.
Evidence Summary: Four Republican senators from southern states urged President Trump to use the Guantanamo Bay detention center on the American base in Cuba. Terrorist groups like al-Qaida and ISIS spend time talking about, brainstorming, and even fantasizing about ways in which they can do harm to the United States. In 2010, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence estimated about 20 percent of former Guantanamo Bay detainees returned to the battlefield. Among the terrorists set to be released in the next two years are the "American Taliban" John Walker Lindh and Kevin James.

Claim: "Shelby County donated Im sorry, gave 44 schools to the city of Memphis."
Evidence Summary: Libertyville, Tennessee, officials saved for years to build. Antioch officials had new debt approved by voters nearly two years ago. Moore County officials are betting that a more educated workforce will lure some of the companies moving into the region to set up shop in Lynchburg. In Memphis, Mayor Jim Strickland has been making the rounds of the city’s churches, preaching a similar gospel, one that works as well with the city's African-American residents as it does in the state's deep red heartland.

Claim: "Top U.S. intelligence officials have toldevery member of Congress, including the president, were about to be attacked in a serious way because (of) the threat emanating from Syria and Iraq."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces an “ever more diverse and interconnected” set of national-security threats, a new report says. The document is meant to govern the activities of 17 intelligence agencies with a combined $80 billion budget and tens of thousands of employees. It outlines the threat to the United States in broad terms, but includes little in the way of details about specific threats from China, Russia or other countries. The leaders of American intelligence agencies are expected to testify to Congress in early February with a more fulsome assessment of the threats facing the country.

Claim: "In July 1996, Mitt Romney helped locate the missing teenage daughter of a partner at Bain Capital."
Evidence Summary: After just three weeks with the Romney campaign, Ric resigned. The fact of the matter is he was pushed out after Mr. Romney failed both a character and moral test: to stand up for someone he hired who was being attacked for being gay. Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. In his first run for public office against then-Sen. Ted Kennedy (D) in 1994 and later in his successful 2002 race for governor of Massachusetts, Romney declared himself a strong supporter of abortion rights.

Claim: The American people support defunding Obamacare and oppose shutting down the government.
Evidence Summary: A new NPR/Ipsos poll finds 7 in 10 Americans say the government shutdown is going to hurt the country. Six in ten Americans are very or somewhat concerned about the shutdown's impact on air travel and transportation. Two-thirds of Americans -- 67 percent -- oppose the idea of President Trump declaring a national emergency to pay for a wall if Congress doesn't fund one. More than 70 percent of federal workers surveyed in a recent poll said they oppose the shutdown, while just 22 percent said they support it.

Claim: "Nobody has played clips over and over ...of President Obama (saying), If they bring a knife to the fight, well bring a gun."
Evidence Summary: "When will we come to grips with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets?" asks Sadiq Khan. The Mayor of London pulls out of a special TV debate on knife crime. He said he could not take part due to a "long-standing commitment" to the government. The debate will be broadcast on BBC2 at 8.30pm on Wednesday. For more information on the debate click here. For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.

Claim: "Rep. Paul Ryans Medicare plan lines the pockets of the private insurance companies, increases costs for seniors and does not reduce the deficit."
Evidence Summary: ‘This is the new theme, for two years until the Wall is finished (under construction now), of the Republican Party. Use it and pray!’ Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. Two minutes later, the president tweeted: ‘BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!' The slogan would seemingly replace the old, 'BUILD THAT WALL’ that so many Trump supporters have chanted at rallies across the country since he announced his intention to run for president in 2015.

Claim: "1/3 of our kids drop out (of high school), cannot go to college or start a career."
Evidence Summary: "When girls are left behind, half the population is left behind. We need the government to start focusing on our education" "Being a good citizen sometimes conflicts with being good parents" "I want very much for them to go to a public school just like I went to public schools" "It's crucial that we tackle this issue head on" "We have to do something. We have to change our culture" "There are many historical and social reasons for people to be economically inactive"

Claim: "If Wisconsins governor cuts perquisites as much as he plans to do, it would still leave (workers) better off than their private sector counterparts."
Evidence Summary: Illinoisans in 2018, like Americans in 1980, saw a state in decline under four dreary years of the Rauner administration. Pritzker, like his predecessor, never held public office until his November victory. He also faces a slew of fiscal problems and the nagging issue of Illinoisans fleeing the Prairie State. One of the near-term fiscal problems is how to pay for those step raises granted state employees, whose unions endorsed him in last year’s election.

Claim: "You cant get on an airplane, but more than 2,000 people on that list have been able to buy a gun."
Evidence Summary: Right-to-carry laws also normalize the practice of carrying guns, making it harder for the police to know who is and who is not allowed to possess guns in public. There is ample evidence of gun owners feeling overconfident about their ability to use guns responsibly, leading to riskier behavior and outcomes ranging from criminal misconduct to lost or stolen guns. Under federal law, only licensed gun dealers must submit background checks to the FBI before a sale to ensure that the buyer is legally allowed to own a firearm.

Claim: "For every $1 spent on afterschool programs, we can save over $5, almost $6, in crime costs down the line."
Evidence Summary: “The problem,” Iwazeki said, “is there is no silver bullet.” One silver lining to the labor dispute in Los Angeles is that the teachers’ union and the district do not disagree on the underlying problems, only on where the money to address them is supposed to come from. High school graduation rates, test scores, and school funding have all been moving modestly upwards over the lifetime of the economic boom. Researchers point to two potentially promising areas to use schools in poorer neighborhoods as hubs for social services.

Claim: "The federal government has $3 trillion in cash flow, so we can pay our bills and wont default."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. central bank has a playbook that includes options should political deadlock in Washington again bring the world’s biggest economy to the brink of a debt default. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors. Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling," Jerome Powell said. The new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it's O.K. to be mad about being in debt, he says.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton supports unlimited abortion on demand up until the moment of birth, including partial-birth abortion, with taxpayer funding."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand and DeGette have said reproductive issues will be a highlight of their agenda. The Senate action was clearly aimed not just at House Democrats’ boast that they would vote to overturn existing abortion restrictions. “Every child is human even in utero and they deserve the right to life,” said a woman who said she had an abortion when she was 15 but had been opposed to abortion ever since the birth of her first daughter. "Our right to make the most deeply personal decision is facing the most significant threat in recent memory," Clinton said.

Claim: "Under legislation that has cleared the Georgia House, some children who are legal refugees could obtain state scholarships to attend private schools."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s six-year graduation rate in 2018 was 55 percent, up from 48 percent in 2011. The fact that its student body is disproportionately disadvantaged economically and socially also makes this progress notable. These days, Georgia State graduates more black students than any other nonprofit educational institution in the United States. Nearly 60 percent of Georgia State”s students are eligible for Pell Grants, meaning many come from households making $40,000 or less. “These kids would have been the first generation to grow up in an independent South Sudan, if war hadn’t so quickly dispelled them”

Claim: "We went from losing 3 million jobs in the last six months of the Bush Administration, adding almost 600,000 private sector jobs in the first six months of the year."
Evidence Summary: Over 4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump took office, with the lowest unemployment rate in half a century. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. The left-leaning media establishment is unable to restrain its insatiable desire for content to sustain the anti-Trump narrative – the facts be damned. But hiring an employee and expanding the workforce is a long-term investment that companies can’t afford to make cavalierly – in either monetary or human terms.

Claim: "Taxpayers are on the hook ... for less than a third of the proposed new Atlanta Falcons stadium, and those funds are repaid from money that comes from outsiders."
Evidence Summary: Alderman says he thinks Ricketts is still upset the team didn’t get public funding to help pay for Wrigley Field renovations. Some members of Illinois’ congressional delegation say they’ll donate their pay as an act of solidarity with federal workers who have been furloughed. A new chapter has been added to the David vs.Goliath story of behemoth developer Sterling Bay’s $5 billion-plus Lincoln Yards plan. On Tuesday morning, the alderman announced that Sterling Bay has scrapped the plan.

Claim: "In the last 22 months, businesses have created more than 3 million jobs. Last year, they created the most jobs since 2005."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The labor market gains have been widespread, with unemployment rates for black, Hispanic, and female jobseekers reaching record lows. The just-ended year saw 2.4 million new jobs created. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion. "It really was a banner year," said Martha Gimbel, director of economic research at the Indeed Hiring Lab.

Claim: "Every year, more than $40 million are leaving Missouri for the Lone Star State."
Evidence Summary: For the fifth straight year, the state lost more residents than it gained. Texas topped the list, adding nearly 380,000 people last year – as if the state had added another city the size of Arlington. Connecticut, another high-tax Blue State, also made the top 10 in population losses, watching more than 1,200 residents go elsewhere. The state owes $7.4 billion in unpaid bills. The ‘Illinois Exodus’ is swelling, the U.S. Census numbers show.

Claim: A college loan is the only loan in the United States that you cannot refinance when interest rates go down.
Evidence Summary: Refinancing involves taking out a new loan and using the funds to pay off the old loan. Usually, people refinance their loans to achieve a new term length, a lower interest rate or both. Refinancing a 10-year student loan to a term of seven years would result in higher monthly payments, but you’d pay the loan off faster and save money on interest. In 2013, President Obama nearly cut undergraduate student loan interest rates in half by tying them to the financial markets.

Claim: "We are younger than our competitors, and this is entirely because of immigration."
Evidence Summary: "You know why it's gone down? Because of good management, because of me and my people, because we've managed it well," Mr. Trump responded. “What’s happening to opportunity in this country? Why is the path so rocky for many — and why is it so much rockier for people of color?” Mr. Obama asked. "You have caravans, nobody ever heard of a caravan," he said. "We have terrorists coming through the southern border"

Claim: "Says 24 million people in this country cant find a full-time job, 50 million cant see a doctor when theyre sick, 47 million people need government help to feed themselves and 15 million families owe more than the value of their home."
Evidence Summary: Among Trump's base, the undifferentiated loathing for an allegedly malign government matches passion for the wall. In 2016, 96 percent of Trump supporters expressed generalized anger at federal policies. Much of this animus is rooted in a race-based contempt for the allegedly useless “other” A companion myth is that support for low-income families is sucking America dry, in reality, it comprises less than 5 percent of federal spending. Many Americans who benefit from government assistance are literally in denial.

Claim: "The policy mistakes that ... the Clintons made got us, in large degree, to the situation that we are in today with mass incarceration."
Evidence Summary: When Barr was attorney general in the 1990s, tough-on-crime policies held virtually the same position that progressive policies do now. Barr led the charge toward tightening the grip on young black men, a group perceived as "superpredators" On Tuesday, Barr acknowledged that his policies created today's mass incarceration problem, but he failed to completely renounce them. "It’s hard to move forward with the future of state until you’ve recognised and rectified the mistakes of the past,” he said.

Claim: "According to David Cay Johnston, the average American pays about 22 percent of their income to federal taxes. The richest 400 Americans pay about 16 percent of their income to federal taxes."
Evidence Summary: In 1980, America had a top income-tax rate of 70% for individuals, nearly double the current top rate of 37%. From 1940 through 1980 the top rate for the highest earners never dipped below 70%. For normal upper-middle-class wage earners, the federal tax rate is nearly 40 percent. A Reuters poll in October found that 76 percent of Americans “strongly agree’ or “somewhat agree” that the wealthiest Americans should pay higher tax rates.

Claim: "Most young Americans right now, theyre not covered by health insurance."
Evidence Summary: 13.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. Before the health care law’s major pieces went into effect during 2014, the uninsured rate peaked at 18 percent. But in the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent, not far from today's mark. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act.

Claim: "In 1952, the corporate income tax accounted for 33 percent of all federal tax revenue. Today, despite record-breaking profits, corporate taxes bring in less than 9 percent."
Evidence Summary: In 1980, America had a top income-tax rate of 70% for individuals, nearly double the current top rate of 37%. From 1940 through 1980 the top rate for the highest earners never dipped below 70%. During most of the 1950s, when the U.S. economy dominated the world, the top Rate was 91%. It kicked in at $400,000 of taxable income, or roughly $3.7 million in today’s dollars. The average rate that the top 1 percent of earners actually paid on all of their income—including income, sales, payroll, property, corporate, and estate taxes—only fell from 38.5 percent to 34.6 percent.

Claim: "Over the last 10 years, Texas created 33 percent of the net new jobs nationwide."
Evidence Summary: Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000 people, the data show. The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015. “There are slightly fewer births this year than last year,” Lila Valencia, a senior demographer with the Texas Demographic center, said. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each.

Claim: "In the class of 1968 at Patrice Lumumba University in Moscow, Mahmoud Abbas was one of the members of that class, and so was Ali Khamenei. And thats where they first established relationships with the young Vladimir Putin."
Evidence Summary: Vladimir Putin is a former head of the FSB. He spent 16 years in the Soviet security service, rising to the rank of KGB lieutenant colonel before the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. The Russian president’s revelation comes shortly after his old East German secret police identification card was reportedly discovered in the Stasi archives. Putin served as a KGB officer in Dresden in the 1980s. He also bizarrely endorsed the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan in the 80s. Trump appeared to side with Putin over his own intelligence agencies on the question of election interference. More recently, the president startled his own national security officials by suddenly announcing the withdrawal of troops from Syria.

Claim: "Last week the Texas State Board of Education (SBOE), led by Rick Perrys appointee, voted to remove Thomas Jefferson from social studies textbook standards. Thats right. Thomas Jefferson... was deleted from a list of historical figures who inspired political change."
Evidence Summary: State Rep. Eric Johnson on Sunday tweeted a photo of the blank wall where the plaque was once displayed. The plaque was made by the Children of the Confederacy and was first hung in the Capitol in 1959. University of Texas has removed several Confederate statues from outdoor display, including a statue of Confederate President Jefferson Davis taken down in 2015 and now displayed in a museum.“If we lose the school, we’d lose the town,” says Mark Driscoll, principle of Miami Independent School District, the county's only school.

Claim: "As a U.S. senator with salary and perks, ‪#Bernie‬ is in the top 1 percent, but still paid only 13 percent in taxes last year."
Evidence Summary: Former Obama administration official Julian Castro, who announced his presidential run on Saturday, cited a 90 percent tax rate on the wealthiest people in the past. “Even during Reagan’s era in the 1980s, it was around 50 percent,” he added. Earlier this month, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez floated the idea of a 70 percent tax rates on incomes over $10 million. Critics piled on to call the tax “astronomical,’ “higher than Communist China’—some even likened it to slavery.

Claim: "You know we can't just pull out now... The truth of the matter is: If we started today, it would take one year, one year to get 160,000 troops physically out of Iraq, logistically."
Evidence Summary: State Department officials pushed back on what they called the “narrative” that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Middle East, giving up on countering ISIS. The officials said a Syria withdrawal would be done “in a deliberate, heavily coordinated way with allies and partners” The New York Times reported Dec. 31 that the latest pullout plan would take about four months, a timeline Trump denied having said on Wednesday. "I never said we’d be doing it that quickly," the president said Sunday.

Claim: "From 2013-2015, the richest 14 Americans increased their net wealth by more than $157 billion, yet the Republican budget would not require these Americans to contribute one penny to deficit reduction."
Evidence Summary: Julian Zelizer: Republicans sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself. He says tax revenues fell $183 billion — or 5.6 percent — short of that projection. The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit, he says. Zelizer says a wealth tax on the wealthiest 0.1 percent of Americans would raise $1.3 trillion over a decade. But conservatives have warned that high taxes on the very rich will stifle growth, lead to capital flight and produce relatively minor revenue gains.

Claim: "Says that while Foster was mayor, Rick Kriseman was ineffective in the Florida House of Representatives because there was no legislation that passed the House that had (Krisemans) name on it."
Evidence Summary: Ron DeSantis will be sworn in as Florida’s 46th governor on Tuesday. Many of his picks for his new administration have, predictably, followed his predecessor Rick Scott's brand of hardline conservatism. For Republicans, Florida stands out as the best political news from an otherwise grim year. “We just live in a red state here,” said Alex Sink, a former Democratic state official who once narrowly lost a bid for governor.“For the thousands of kids that went up to Tallahassee and worked their asses off to get these laws passed, the least they can do is try not to reverse them their first year back in office," said David Hogg.

Claim: "Electric car sales in Georgia have dropped dramatically since a $5,000 tax credit was eliminated and a $200 annual registration fee was imposed July 1."
Evidence Summary: General Motors sold its 200,000th electric vehicle in the United States in 2018, similarly triggering a phase-out of the federal tax credit. Gene Munster of Loup Ventures calculated that the lowered tax credit equaled, on average, a 3 percent discount on a Tesla. If Tesla had a demand issue, therefore, the company would have cut its prices by more than 3 percent, he wrote in a note. Other carmakers will begin to see their incentives phase out in the coming year, starting with General Motors in April.

Claim: "The Postal Services financial losses result from a 2006 law that drains $5 billion a year from post office revenue, while the Postal Service is forced to overpay billions more into federal accounts."
Evidence Summary: The original estimate that the partial shutdown would subtract 0.1 percentage point from growth every two weeks has now been doubled. The administration had initially counted just the impact from the 800,000 federal workers not receiving their paychecks. It marked the 12th year in a row the agency reported a loss despite growth in package shipping. In December 2017, President Donald Trump criticized the USPS via Twitter, suggesting that shipping costs were too low. The USPS runs on the sale of its products and services.

Claim: "Now, in the House of Representatives, we have 40 different jobs bills that have passed and almost all of them have been bipartisan."
Evidence Summary: "I’m ready, willing and able to get a deal done. But they don’t," he said, referring to congressional Democrats. "I think it's bad politics. This country wants to have protection at the border" "I hope that we can get progressive change," he added. "But that's what's great about our Caucus. We're diverse, but we all come together when we’ve got to get things done" "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get thingsdone"

Claim: "Republican (small business tax cut) bill spends $80 million for better Google searches, not job creation"
Evidence Summary: The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit, which now appears on track to top $1 trillion this year. As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. Total federal revenues in 2018 came in roughly where the Tax Foundation, a Washington think tank that typically projects large growth boosts from tax cuts, had forecast — which is to say, well below the budget office’s baseline. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth.

Claim: "If black America were a country, itd be the 15th wealthiest nation in the world."
Evidence Summary: "What’s happening to opportunity in this country? Why is the path so rocky for many," she asks. "I’ll never forget the profound lesson about racial equality that my father taught me in his short but pointed seven-word response," she says. "Racism and white supremacy are wicked. They’re incompatible with what we know to be true, that every person is made with untold dignity and value," she adds. "My daddy ended up as a janitor, and I had a chance to become a public-school teacher, a college professor and a United States senator," King says.

Claim: "Since Republicans took over after the 2010 election, the graduation rate in Wisconsin has gone from 86 percent to 88 percent. The black graduation rate has gone from 60 percent to 65 percent. The Latino graduation rate has gone from 65 percent to 71 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. Department of Education defines “graduation rates’ as the percentage of first-time, full-time undergraduates who obtain a bachelor’s degree within six years. This metric fails to consider transfer students, part-time students, or students who first obtain degrees from community colleges. Many graduates are the first in their families to earn a degree and often remain in Chicago to provide stability in our neighborhoods. The editorial essentially argues that CSU does not matter.

Claim: "It has been estimated that nearly 40 percent of all guns sold in America are sold by private, unlicensed sellers either online or through gun shows."
Evidence Summary: Gunmakers and dealers gather this week in Las Vegas for the industry's largest annual conference. The industry was facing a so-called "Trump slump," a plummet in sales that happens amid gun rights-friendly administrations. Some of the top priorities for theindustry remain in limbo, and prospects for expanding gun rights are nil for the foreseeable future. Nearly 40,000 Americans were killed with firearms in 2017, the majority of them gun suicides, according to statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Claim: "Florida teachers are ""already paid $5,000 below the national average."""
Evidence Summary: Teachers earn between $44,000 and $86,000 a year depending on their education and experience. The district says the average teacher salary is $75,000, which reflects the older, more experienced workforce. The union argues that the district is hoarding reserves of $1.8 billion that could be used to fund the pay and staffing hikes. In a national USA TODAY/Ipsos Poll last September, Americans by a similar 59 percent to 34 percent said teachers weren't paid what they're worth.

Claim: "Since Rick Perry became governor, Texas has gone from 46th in the country to 50th in the population that graduates from high school."
Evidence Summary: Texas' last legislative session ended with one lawmaker threatening to shoot another after reporting Hispanic protesters to immigration agents. The Texas Legislature returns Tuesday, and unlike places such as Colorado and Minnesota where Democrats seized control of legislative chambers in November's midterm elections, Republicans remain firmly in power. But they also took their licks: Democrats flipped 14 seats in the Legislature, closing the gap. There's still a case that a lot is going right in America, despite the circus in Washington. But 2019 is shaping up to be a much rougher ride.

Claim: "Americans, in the last 30 years, have more than doubled the amount of money we are spending per child (on education) and the results have gotten worse, not better."
Evidence Summary: "Sometimes maybe parents should decide to be good citizens over being good parents," he says. "We need the government to start focusing on our education" "I'm determined that we build an America where not just the children of rich people get the chance to build something" "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.” "I am grateful to America down to my toes. I’m proud to be a U.S. citizen"

Claim: "Lawmakers were paid for their off-season efforts to, for the first time, take the lead in drawing borders for two would-be cities."
Evidence Summary: If the the wall were so critical to President Donald Trump's concept of border security, why didn't the Republicans fund it when they had majorities in the House and the Senate? America has a long tradition of part-time public service, and the tradition may seem romantic. On several issues, fissures — or in some cases, chasms — are already showing. Many of the squabbles are within the Democratic Party: between urban legislators and those from outside cities, moderates and progressives.

Claim: "Under a proposed medical marijuana amendment in Florida, you dont get refills -- you get it forever."
Evidence Summary: Illinois' medical marijuana program is set to expire in July 2020. New Gov. J.B. Pritzker promised in his inaugural address he would work to legalize recreational marijuana. Ten states and the District of Columbia have legalized recreational marijuana use, and another eight look likely to do so in 2019. It reminds me of the cigarette ads 70 years ago in major magazines by doctors for the smoothness on throats, the movie star endorsement and macho man endorsements represented by the Marlboro man.

Claim: "A data-storing microchip ""would be implanted in the majority of people who opt to become covered by the public health care option."""
Evidence Summary:  AI-powered computers are getting better at analysing images and diagnosing cancers, and helping to identify molecules that could be turned into life-saving drugs. Data-driven healthcare, with an emphasis on prevention rather than cure, will have a "tremendous societal impact," says John Gikopoulos, global head of AI and automation at Infosys Consulting. "We'll see the first example of a scaled-up mass IoT attack affecting critical infrastructure," predicts Darren Thomson, chief technology officer at cybersecurity firm Symantec.

Claim: "Enacting the Right-to-Carry Act would amount to expanding the rights of sex offenders, terrorists, child predators, and abusers to carry concealed weapons across state lines."
Evidence Summary: New conservative majority could extend Second Amendment beyond front door. Case at hand, New York State Rifle & Pistol Association v. New York, is ideal vehicle for gun-rights activists. Lower courts, now packed with pro-gun Trump nominees, will swiftly tear down restrictions on concealed and open carry. A central premise of Heller and McDonald—that the Second Amendment protects handguns “in the home’—will be cast aside, writes CNN's John Sutter. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he says.

Claim: "Nathan Deal cut the HOPE scholarship program so that literally 100,000 Georgians will not be able to go to college or get technical training that they so badly needed to raise -- you know, give them a chance at a good job."
Evidence Summary: Georgia Senate candidate says he will make a decision by the end of March. Georgia has 16 electoral votes available to transform an election. Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product, according to the Virginia Economic Development Partnership. The state ranks 26th in income equality, according the American Community Survey, and is not a heavy investment state.. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross downplayed the hardships caused by a partial government shutdown and said he was puzzled by reports of federal workers turning to food banks and other relief.

Claim: "As governor of Arkansas, I cut taxes and fees almost 100 times, saving the taxpayers almost $380-million. I left a surplus of nearly $850-million."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. “It won’t be easy, but let’s confront this challenge with honesty,” said Mr. Pritzker, who spent more than $160 million of his own money to win the Governor's Mansion.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton ""starts off with 47 percent of the country against her."""
Evidence Summary: Sen. Elizabeth Warren announced plans to run for president on New Year's Eve. A Politico article cited concerns that Warren may share too many “attributes” with Hillary Clinton to be “likable.” There are many reasons why likability is a flawed metric for political candidates, men and women alike. Clinton's favorables have always plummeted whenever she announced that she was seeking higher office. The more a woman is in service to someone else, the more likable she is, Clinton explained in 2017.

Claim: "[A]t his current rate, President Obama will have added more debt to the United State of America by the end of his first term than each of the previous 43 presidents -- combined!"
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The notion that debt doesn’t matter — which is gaining some currency on the left — is wrong. The long-term costs of Medicare, for example, continue to be a real problem in this country. And at a certain point, debt could reach a level that would indeed be damaging.

Claim: "The fundraising numbers are in, and our grassroots support is unmatched!"
Evidence Summary: Kolfage used GoFundMe to solicit donations by check to a P.O. Box in Colorado, manned by former Freedom Daily writer Amanda Shea. So far, he has received $760 of his $3,000 goal in five donations ranging from $20 to $400. The Women’s March had a few initiatives for getting out the vote during the recent midterm elections, including phone banking. Several local chapters, in Florida, Barcelona, Washington state, Canada, Portland and the Global organization, have recently been actively distancing themselves from the national leadership.

Claim: "Says although the unemployment rate seems to be improving, it does not reflect real job creation -- its caused by a shrinking of the actual labor force."
Evidence Summary: The unemployment rate rose to 3.9%, but only because more people entered the workforce. The latest monthly jobs survey shows that the economic weakness causing stock markets to drop isn't yet visible in the employment figures. Creating more than a quarter-million new jobs in a single month (let alone hitting that average for three straight) shows that employers continue to have a great deal of confidence in the economy. All while the left-leaning media establishment is unable to restrain its insatiable desire for content to sustain the anti-Trump narrative.

Claim: "Obama voted ""to cut off funding for our American troops on the battlefield."""
Evidence Summary: Trump's decision to withdraw was one of the reasons Defense Secretary Jim Mattis cited for stepping down last month. Mattis urged Trump to maintain the U.S. presence to aid Kurdish allies and deter the Syrian and Iranian regimes. "Our troops have done all we have asked them to do and more," then-Sen. Barack Obama once said. "No amount of American soldiers can solve the political differences at the heart of somebody else's civil war, nor settle the grievances in the hearts of the combatants," he said.

Claim: "In general, it appears Wisconsins right to work bill would likely apply to the Green Bay Packers players and their union."
Evidence Summary: The contract also requires city workers to put in more years on the job before they reach the top of the pay scale. But the contract – which runs through April 30, 2022 – also contained legal language that would require union dues to be paid by the union members. Such language became improper when the Supreme Court of the United States ruled last June in a case in favor of an American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees member who objected to money being deducted from his paycheck to cover union dues.

Claim: "The so-called defense minister of the Peoples Republic of Donetsk ... actually posted a bragging social media posting of having shot down a military transport. And then when it became apparent it was civilian, they pulled it down from social media."
Evidence Summary: The Strategic Command tweeted a picture of a pair of Massive Ordnance Penetrators. In the background, pulsing music could be heard and the words "STEALTH," "READY" and "LETHAL" flashed across the screen in block letters. A spokesperson for the Strategic Command said the post “was part of our Year in Review series meant to feature our command priorities: strategic deterrence, decisive response and combat-ready force” The bizarre tweet prompted a backlash from some users on social media.

Claim: "Right now one of our highest job growth sectors is Leisure and Hospitality. Weve added jobs that mostly fall within the restaurant and bar sector industry. These are not high-paying jobs, as the U.S. Department of Labor estimates this is an industry sector with the lowest average wages and the lowest proportion of its workforce earning minimum or subminimum wage jobs."
Evidence Summary: U.S. employers added 312,000 jobs in December. Health care, food services, construction and manufacturing sectors were the primary contributors to last month's hiring. The aging baby boomer generation, the proliferation of high-speed internet access, and the alcoholic beverage preferences of the millennial generation all help explain hiring surges in a number of different occupations. 24/7 Wall St. reviewed annual employment data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics from 2008 to 2017 to identify America’s 25 thriving industries.

Claim: "Gov. Scott Walker bought 80 new, brand-new vehicles for the state that we probably dont need."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom’s new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. The governor laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation. They include making Wisconsin a right-to-work state and requiring a photo ID to vote. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in 13,000 new jobs and a $10 billion investment.

Claim: "Says he passed eight measures, including ones to prevent groping at airport security checks and to bar sanctuary cities in Texas."
Evidence Summary: The president stopped short of declaring the national emergency he’s spoken of in recent days. He also steered clear, after days of criticism, of repeating some of the false claims that thousands of terrorists were crossing the border. But as he often does at political rallies, he vividly described a few violent crimes allegedly committed by people who are in the U.S. illegally. He spent much of the address talking about the dangers that an open border presented, describing a "very wide and open gateway for criminals and gang members to enter the United States"

Claim: "Before our last three presidents, you have to go back to the 1800s, early 1800s to find three presidents in a row being consecutively re-elected."
Evidence Summary: Will: "A president should demonstrate the essential qualities of honesty and integrity" Will: "With the nation so divided, resentful and angry, presidential leadership in qualities of character is indispensable" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before," he says. "I will do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes to remove a president," he adds. "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress"

Claim: "The most recent Associated Press poll has Nader-Gonzalez at 6 percent, without any national coverage, against McCain and Obama."
Evidence Summary: Daily Kos straw poll shows Bernie Sanders with just 11 percent of the vote. That's compared with 15 percent for Beto O'Rourke, 14 percent for Kamala Harris, 14% for Joe Biden and 11% for Bernie Sanders. The progressive organization says it’ll repeat the straw poll every two weeks. The survey of 1,023 adults was conducted from Jan. 10 to Jan. 13 by The Marist Poll for NPR and the PBS NewsHour. The results for all Americans have a margin of error of +/- 3.8 percentage points.

Claim: "Dan Patrick said that if women get paid less than a man for the same job, that thats not a problem."
Evidence Summary: The proposed class includes women who have worked in product development, information technology and support functions since 2013. The alleged practices affected more than 5,000 women, more than 11,000 Asians and fewer than 30 blacks from 2013 through 2016. Massachusetts enacted its new Equal Pay Act, which prohibits employers from paying lower wages to workers of a different gender who perform comparable work. The law also bars salary histories as a defense for unequal pay, meaning an employer can't argue a man is paid more, or a woman less, because of their previous salary history.

Claim: "Weve got an average of 5,600 soldiers committing suicide. Thats about 20 a day."
Evidence Summary: The Veterans Crisis Line helps about 2,000 callers every day. In the past 10 years, it has answered over 3.5 million calls, engaged in over 413,000 online chats, and responded to over 98,000 text messages. Tragically, an average of 20 veterans die by suicide each day. The Union Veterans Council, on behalf of its federal employee members on Monday, issued a rebuke to Wilkie. “This is an outrageous attempt to distract from the very serious crisis that tens of thousands of veterans have been hurled into with no end in sight,” the group said in a statement.

Claim: "There have even been Republican congressmen who have said, If you give us more money we dont know where we would even put additional Border Patrol agents."
Evidence Summary: Democrats have argued the number of dangerous people cited by the administration is exaggerated. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi reportedly told DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen “I reject your facts.” A Border Patrol agent said Tuesday that terrorists infiltrating migrant groups is a real threat. Sanders denied that the White House was holding underfunded departments like Treasury "hostage" to gain "leverage," saying instead that Trump "wants to do this all at once. He knows it’s better if they can focus on getting all of these packages done at one time"

Claim: "Today, for the first time in fifteen years, Master Locks unionized plant in Milwaukee is running at full capacity."
Evidence Summary: The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers’ claims jumped. The number of inbound cargo shipments through the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach rose 19.2% in December. After nearly 30 years on the job, a Lake Forest, Wisconsin, trucker spoke optimistically about the area’s future. “I think the future for Lake Forest and Lake Bluff is very strong,” he said. "It's beautiful," Trump said in November 2018 at the opening of a U.S. Steel blast furnace in Missouri.

Claim: "ISIS camp a few miles from Texas, Mexican authorities confirm."
Evidence Summary: The White House is working to get the message out that terrorists are crossing the U.S.-Mexico border. But that’s not entirely true. The State Department's summary of global terrorism threats published in September concluded that there was "no credible evidence indicating that international terrorist groups...sent operatives via Mexico into the United States"Tomorrow, President Trump travels to McAllen, Texas, to visit those he says are on the front lines of what he calls a growing national security and humanitarian crisis. NPR's Carrie Kahn has been in Reynosa, Mexico.

Claim: New federal projections estimate that the health care overhaul will cost $1.76 trillion over 10 years -- well above the $940 billion Democrats originally claimed.
Evidence Summary: Numerous experts have estimated the cost of Medicare-for-all, including former Medicare Board of Trustees member Charles Blahous. He estimates the cost to the federal budget at $32.6 trillion. Even a doubling of corporate and individual income taxes would fail to cover its costs. Such proposals would lead to more government involvement in health care, and bring the U.S. a step closer to mostly socialized systems like the British National Health Service. The popularity is driven by frustration with the current private insurance system, which remains costly on the individual market.

Claim: "Common Core is not from the federal government, they do not have their fingerprints on this thing at all."
Evidence Summary: "I don't understand what the security question will be and what gets thrown in there. I think this is more of a political issue. We need the government to start focusing on our education," he says. "Being a good citizen sometimes conflicts with being good parents," he adds. "Maybe in our case it should have meant choosing a public school rather than a private one.”“This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for,” he says, “We need a federal law.

Claim: "Says Scott Walker brags a lot about having an independent agency investigate police shootings. Of course, he didnt fund it."
Evidence Summary: Twitter users pile on the governor, who signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. "This is not about politics or partisanship. As I have said, special agents are working and are committed to protecting our country, but we need funding to do our work," he said. "With all due respect to the president of the United States, he’s wrong,” Newsom said about healthcare. “California is right”

Claim: "When the country was founded, Congress had exactly the same attitude about the sanctity of Christmas celebrations that a 7-Eleven does today: Yeah, were open."
Evidence Summary: Until recently, talking about morality in America's public square has been an activity all but limited to Republicans. The Trump Presidency has irrevocably changed that — for the better. Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., joined colleagues in the new Democratic majority to introduce House Bill 1, a 571-page omnibus package designed to expand and protect voting rights. "There is power in elected members of the United States Congress speaking up in the interest of their constituency and the American public," Lewis said.

Claim: "In Miami-Dade County, we spend at our school system over $20 million every year educating recent immigrants."
Evidence Summary: Los Angeles public schools spent $12,073 per pupil in 2017, according to a study. The study noted that were these expenses to be included, the per-pupil cost would more than double the official figure. Illegal immigration costs taxpayers a staggering $134.9 billion a year while contributing only $19 billion in state, federal, and local taxes. Medical costs make up the lion’s share of government expenditures on illegal immigrants, while education is the largest single expense that illegal immigration imposes on state and local governments.

Claim: The omnibus bill has only $3.8 billion in earmarks.
Evidence Summary: McConnell says the Senate will not take up any proposal that does not have a real chance of getting Trump’s signature. The FBI is investigating fake text messages sent to some House Republican lawmakers from someone impersonating a top aide to Vice President Mike Pence. The Irish cabinet has agreed to put forward one omnibus bill to speed up the no-deal withdrawal from the UK. Some predict the impact could be even greater than in the UK with some predicting the impact of a no- deal would be even worse.

Claim: "Senator McCain has been talking tough about earmarks, and that's good, but earmarks account for about $18-billion of our budget."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand: "I think there is a way to do it. It is so easy to do" Wallace: "We won the Senate ... for the most part I campaigned for the Senate. Almost everywhere I went we won. But i’m only one person,” he said. He also lashed the Democrats for their refusal to allocate $5.7 billion for his wall. He insisted, without evidence, that the amount is “way less than other other presidents” have requested.

Claim: "Kim Myers voted repeatedly to raise taxes on the people of Broome County, but made millions off of tax savings when her family business relocated its headquarters."
Evidence Summary: “The worst-kept secret in Springfield is a rumored massive gasoline and diesel tax hike. Just when gas prices are finally falling, and little more than a year after income taxes were hiked 32 percent, greedy politicians seem all too willing to take more of our hard-earned money. It’s just plain wrong,” Skillicorn said. Preckwinkle backed a pop tax on sugary beverages that passed the county board in 2016. It later was repealed following public pressure and a lobbying effort by the beverage industry.

Claim: "Californias Prop 60, which would requirecondom usein adult films, would put workers in the adult film industry at riskfor lawsuits and harassment."
Evidence Summary: The bill defines pornographic content as “patently offensive’ material that lacks “literary, artistic, political or scientific value” It references the banning of “revenge porn” websites and addresses specific anatomical areas that cannot be visible in images. Similar bills have been proposed, including one last year by GOP Virginia state Rep. Dave LaRock, who wanted Virginians to pay a $20 fee to unblock content on adult websites. In South Dakota this week, the State Senate introduced Bill 49, which would affect transgender athletes’ ability to participate in high school sports.

Claim: "Sens. Isaksons, Chambliss Votes Against Unemployment Insurance Were Votes to Kill Nearly 6,000 Georgia Jobs."
Evidence Summary: The bill to ensure workers receive back pay passed 411-7. Georgia is one of the states with 16 electoral votes available to transform an election. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: "Enjoy being exhausted for the next two years while we run train on the progressive agenda" The House will vote on a bill to fund the government through the end of the fiscal year on Thursday. The Senate will vote next week on a measure to fund it through the next fiscal year, through September.

Claim: "When terrorists killed more than 250 Americans in Lebanon under Ronald Reagan, the Democrats didnt make that a partisan issue."
Evidence Summary: Hannity: "The worst part of this is Democrats are politicizing what is our national security" In 1984, President Reagan laid the blame on what he saw as intransigent House Democrats. "We've got to raise the bar on civility, George. We need to call it out on the Republican side and the Democrat side," he said. "It's time those Democrat leaders you just mentioned called it out when it happens on their side as well" "Who gives you a dollar for a wall when the Democratic Party supported 25 billion dollars in the past? We’re not going to negotiate with people who see the world this way"

Claim: "This is the first time a party has picked up multiple seats during a regular election since the mid 1980s, making this the largest majority of any party in more than 25 years."
Evidence Summary: Two hundred and two MPs voted in favour of May’s deal, with 432 against. The previous biggest meaningful defeat of a prime minister was in 1924. Among Tory MPs, 118 voted against their leader's deal, compared with 196 who backed it. Only three Labour MPs, along with three independents, supported the prime minister.Labour had suffered one of its worst postwar defeats just two years earlier. And yet the Conservatives lost their majority. This time round, Labour are ahead in several polls.

Claim: "(Flint, Mich., is) paying three times more for poison water than I am paying in Burlington, Vt., for clean water."
Evidence Summary: The shift may also highlight the failure of the Republicans’ austerity measures in Michigan that many say are the crisis’s source. Flint was one of the worst man-made environmental debacles in U.S. history. Lead infected the distribution system in the city of 100,000, which was under the thumb of financial managers appointed by Snyder. A series of meaningful sentences and payouts could be viewed not just as a condemnation of those involved in the crisis, but wider Republican policies, as well.

Claim: "Says a Portland school gives Muslim students their own school provided prayer room, prayer rugs, and lets them out of class five times a day to pray to Allah."
Evidence Summary: Four students at Odyssey Academy in Greece, New York, have been arrested. They are charged with three counts of first-degree criminal possession of a dangerous weapon and one count of fourth-degree conspiracy. Their actions changed the narrative, the school's IOST said. "No one deserves to worship in fear of being attacked or hurt," the group said in a statement. "We are incredibly grateful that young people refused to stand idly by. Students trusted their instincts and what they have learned from us in school"

Claim: "(Texas Republicans) believe in abolishing Social Security, abolishing V.A. health care."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all’ The results come after a federal judge in Texas ruled in December that the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, is invalid. The law remains in place as Democrats appeal that decision, and Republicans are appealing the ruling as well. The survey also found that 74 percent – including 47 percent of Republicans – favor a national government plan like Medicare that is open to anyone.

Claim: "In the case of General Motors, the (Bush) administration wrote a check without asking for any conditions of change."
Evidence Summary: The GSA’s general counsel said investigators interviewed two dozen employees and reviewed 10,000 documents and found no political influence exerted to obtain the lease. “We also note that the report, despite its lengthy historical analysis of the Emoluments Clauses, does not find that any constitutional violation occurred,” Jack St. John wrote. Rep. Mike Quigley, D-Ill., who heads the Appropriations subcommittee that oversees GSA, said the agency's disregard for the Constitution “is beyond troubling”

Claim: "When President, then candidate, Obama was asked to disclose some of his donors because there was suspicion of their being the foreign source of money into his campaign, they refused to do it."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump tweeted that Obama for America violated campaign finance law in 2012. Julian Zelizer says this is false by omission, because it ignores an entire category of criminal offenses. Zelizer: House Democrats' first bill is really an attempt to silence or obstruct political opponents. The bill would expand the prohibition on foreign political money and mandate the disclosure of the big donors behind politically active 501(c)(4) social welfare organizations. Digital companies, like Facebook and Google, would have to set up public databases cataloging political ad purchase requests of $500 or more.

Claim: "Says Donald Trump cashed in on Sept. 11,collecting $150,000 in federal funds intended to help small businesses recover even though days after the attack Trump said his properties were not affected."
Evidence Summary: The White House did not respond to queries about whether Trump has offered to help members of his protective detail or uniformed officers guarding the building. Lending money directly could run afoul of federal ethics law, but donating to charities that are helping furloughed employees would likely be legal. The president has threatened to continue the standoff for “months or even years” if Democrats don’t agree to include $5 billion for his long-promised U.S.-Mexico border wall in a spending bill.

Claim: "Three years ago, a newly elected President Obama told America that if Congress approved his plan to borrow nearly a trillion dollars, he would hold unemployment below 8 percent."
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. Paul Ryan’s impassioned (and, of course, hypocritical) denunciations of federal debt won him media adulation and awards.

Claim: "Under a bill before the legislature, youd have to go to court to fire an employee."
Evidence Summary: Judge Young says he won't let the shutdown "change the job I have to do" But he acknowledges, calculations will change when the money runs out. “Inevitably, I suspect it probably gets challenged in court,” he says of the government's shutdown plan. "This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for," he says. "We need a federal law. Under an obstruction statute, yes.”“Not just the people who aren’t getting paychecks but also the businesses being hamstrung by this shutdown, so the government really needs to get together and work this out”

Claim: "In the entire public school system in Camden last year, only three students graduated college ready."
Evidence Summary: For the past seven years, Georgia State has been feeding student data into a “Moneyball”-style predictive analytics system. By crunching numbers such as the student’s grades in critical classes like 10th-grade English, the system identified weaker incoming freshmen. The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960. The Tribune’S reliance on “graduation rates” as a metric for success conflates “ graduation rate” with degree attainment.

Claim: "Says nearly 29,000 Oregonians almost 5 percent of all homeowners are 90 days or more delinquent on their mortgage."
Evidence Summary: Last month’s Fannie Mae Home Purchase Sentiment Index found that the number of Americans who think it is a good time to buy a home dropped by 12 percentage points in one month. Mortgage rates also rose last year about half a percentage point, on average, ending the year with an annual average of 4.54 percent, versus 3.99 percent in 2017. Despite our misgivings, though, we continue to borrow, especially on cards: According to Federal Reserve data, Americans increased revolving debt by nearly 11 percent on an annualized basis in October.

Claim: "Under the Hate Crimes bill, ""any pastor, preacher, priest, rabbi or imam who gives a sermon out of their moral traditions about sexual practices could be found guilty of a federal crime."""
Evidence Summary: Virginia, in addition to 38 other states, does not prohibit private workplace discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Legally, Immanual Christian School can discriminate against the LGBTQ community. So-called religious freedom advocates have moved quickly to leverage the backlash, portraying criticism as yet another instance of liberal overreach. Increasingly, this is the desperate defense of those who find themselves on the wrong side of history — as well as societal and legal norms. A month after the U.S. Senate unanimously passed a bill that would explicitly make lynching a federal crime, the leader of an evangelical nonprofit criticized the bill’s inclusion of LGBTQ people.

Claim: This is what President Obama said the jobless rate would be if we passed the stimulus: 5.6 percent.
Evidence Summary: The US added 312,000 jobs in December, a huge rise well above forecasts that came amid volatile stock markets, a government shutdown and signs the economy is slowing. The survey median is for a January unemployment rate of 4 percent, rather than holding steady or edging down from December's 3.9 percent. The shutdown also may affect the jobless rate, as hundreds of thousands of furloughed government workers could be classified as unemployed. The unemployment rate is 3.7 percent, a 49-year low.

Claim: "I told the Congress 'thanks, but no thanks,' on that Bridge to Nowhere."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Ted Cruz: President is trying to do an end run around Congress to get his precious wall. He says the 116th Congress will spend the next two years in one of the most frustrating periods of their lives. Cruz: I am reminded of a quote from the 1969 movie "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid," written by the recently deceased brilliant two-time Oscar winner, novelist, and playwright William Goldman. "How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?"

Claim: "State school funding per pupil is down 16 percent compared to 2009, after adjusting for inflation."
Evidence Summary: The teachers’ union is demanding still more money even as the number of students instructors have to teach declines. 29 states have lower education funding than they did in 2008, and nationwide, education funding is still about $450 lower per student than it was a decade ago. “There are a lot of falsehoods out there regarding the law as we need $7 billion to completely fund the schools, but unfortunately we can’t get it all at once,” Kifowit said.

Claim: "American voters remain steadfast in their support for immigration reform with a path to citizenship, with more than 70 percent who want to see reform passed this year."
Evidence Summary: 42 percent of Americans now support the construction of the border wall, a full 8 percentage point jump from previous results on the same question, published one year ago. The number of Americans who “strongly oppose” the wall has fallen dramatically, from a clear 53 percent majority a year ago to a startling 38 percent in the middle of Trump’s border-inspired government paralysis. The poll also showed that Americans are divided on support for the wall (44 percent support while 47 percent oppose). And nearly half – 47 percent – blame Trump for the shutdown, compared to Congressional Democrats (33 percent) and Congressional Republicans (5 percent)

Claim: "According to a national survey, transit ridership among people age 16 to 34 increased 40 percent between 2001 and 2009."
Evidence Summary: The reason for declining bus speeds is congestion, which has been blamed on ride-share services, construction and a stronger economy that has led more people to drive. The CTA and the city have added dedicated bus lanes in the Loop, to help buses avoid traffic. Several candidates advocated for more bus lanes, though the issue is tricky to solve. Businessman Willie Wilson said he would improve ridership by lowering fares and offering free rides for seniors. The discussion comes during a long-term decline in bus ridership, which have fallen by by 21 percent since 2012.

Claim: "In fiscal year 2011-2012, 4,191 abortions were paid for by taxpayers via the Oregon Health Plan."
Evidence Summary: Planned Parenthood receives funding from several sources. About 41 percent of its funding comes in the form of federal government reimbursements and grants through programs such as Medicaid and Title X. Federal funding can cover many of the health services Planned Parenthood provides. It cannot cover abortions, except in cases of rape, incest or when the mother's life is in danger. The restriction is a result of the Hyde Amendment, which Congress passed in 1976 and prohibits the use of federal funds for abortion services in the U.S.

Claim: Im the only (Republican)candidate that has actually reduced the size of government.
Evidence Summary: I am proud of the value I provided the military during my 27-year career. While Democrats accept the pronoun I prefer, I firmly believe the best government is that which governs least. It's a mistake for the Republican Party to ask me to choose between my true identity and my philosophy of government. I know what it takes to ensure that we have a government that functions well and to help inspire people. I also have a life experience that I think resonates with a lot of Americans. You know I'm here in my neighborhood that I grew up in.

Claim: "After how hard you work and how much you pay in taxes, New York City ends up getting the money. Im Chris Jacobs. I think its time we have someone in Albany thats making sure our region gets our fair share"
Evidence Summary: New York Mayor Bill de Blasio delivered his sixth State of the City speech on Thursday. In the speech, he presented his leadership of New York as one that has made streets safer. He cast himself as an aspiring Robin Hood, aiming to take from the rich and give to the poor. But the city still needs help from Albany to accomplish many of its most impactful goals, he said. The coming New York state budget is going to be about more than dollars and cents, de Blasio said.

Claim: Amazing fact: Senate has already voted on more amendments in 2015 than Reid allowed ALL YEAR last year.
Evidence Summary: The Affordable Care Act, which Reid managed to navigate past the oppositional tactics of his persistent nemesis, Mitch McConnell, has so far withstood McConnell and Trump’s efforts to dismantle the legislation. Reid was also prescient in urging the Obama administration and congressional Republicans to go public about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. “They did nothing — or nothing that I’m aware of,” Reid said. Reid also defended on his decision to do away with filibusters in judicial appointments – a move that cleared the way for Republicans and Trump to land two conservatives justices on the Supreme Court.

Claim: "One out of every four students fails to earn a high school diploma. In our major cities across America, half of our kids dont graduate."
Evidence Summary: The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960. An estimated 20 percent of working adults have some college credits, but no degree. Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education.“When girls are left behind, half the population is left behind. We need the government to start focusing on our education,” says Georgia State teacher and college dropout.

Claim: "Says a tweet he sent out wasnt saying, check out a sex tape. It was just take a look at the background of Alicia Machado."
Evidence Summary: Escamilla: “I don’t know if we’re saying those allegations are true or not. I mean … That would be where there would be an apology.” R. Kelly has long denied claims of sexual misconduct and has not been charged in any of the allegations against him. The Twitter account that helped spread the initial video has been removed. The user -- @2020Fight -- claimed to be a teacher and advocate named Talia from California with a photo appearing to show Brazilian model and actress Natalia Cardoso.

Claim: This administration and this Congress have been systematically cutting funding to border security since the Democrats took control.
Evidence Summary: The House approved a bill to fund the Treasury Department, the IRS and other agencies for the next year. Democrats called for temporary funding of the DHS through Feb. 8 as Trump and Congress negotiate a long-term plan. The Democratic-controlled House voted 240-188 to approve the funding bill, which also would reopen the Federal Communications Commission, the Small Business Administration and the federal judiciary, among other agencies. Eight Republicans joined 232 Democrats to support the bill, but it is almost certainly dead on arrival in the Senate.

Claim: "In the month of July alone, EU exports to South Korea increased by over 36 percent. A lot of that is our market share. Those are our farmers and our service providers who are suffering."
Evidence Summary: South Korean President Moon Jae-in on the issue of forced wartime labor were "extremely regrettable" Japan's top government spokesman said Moon was trying to shift Seoul's responsibility to Japan. Moon on Thursday urged Japan’s political leaders not to undermine ties by “politicising” the issue. Relations between the East Asian neighbors have been frosty since South Korea's top court ruled in October that Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp should compensate four former laborers.

Claim: "Gov. Rick Perry spent over a million dollars on D.C. lobbyists asking for more federal money and lives in a luxury house that costs taxpayers $10,000 a month."
Evidence Summary: California Governor Gavin Newsom's budget includes $80.7bn for K-12 schools and community colleges. Newsom also includes $25m for an immigration rapid response program to assist community-based organizations and not-for-profits. Some are already speculating that Newsom may be the most progressive state governor in history. Republicans are obsessed with former secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email system, insisting Team Clinton was not only stupid and careless (it was), but also criminal (it wasn’t)

Claim: "As Virginia lost over 65,000 jobs, (Tim) Kaine put partisan ambitions first by serving as DNC chairman during the last year of his governorship."
Evidence Summary: North Carolina House race marred by fraud may not be resolved until the fall. Failed 2018 Virginia Senate candidate Corey Stewart announcing he would not seek another term as chairman of the Board of Supervisors of Prince William County and would leave politics for “the foreseeable future” The public squabble over progressive representation in DCCC leadership reflects a debate over the lessons from the successful 2018 midterm election. The New Democrat Coalition flipped 11 of the 40 Republican House seats who had the backing of the CPC’s backing in the general election.

Claim: "Says Zack Space voted for budgets and debt, energy taxes and the stimulus, and we still lost more than 2.5 million jobs."
Evidence Summary: President's daughter-in-law, Lara Trump, criticised for comments on government workers. She said: 'If we're going to do everything based on ideology and hatred, I just don't see how we are going to be successful as a country' Comments come as Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross downplayed the hardships caused by a partial government shutdown. 'If they never got their pay, you're talking about a third of a percent on our GDP [Gross Domestic Product] so it's not like it's a gigantic number,' he said.

Claim: "In every ethics case that has resulted in a formal sanction, theres been an investigative subcommittee thats been established first."
Evidence Summary: The NPA has filed a complaint against Deputy AG Rod Rosenstein. Rod Rosenstein has said he won't comment on what he is or isn't investigating. The NPA's complaint says Rollins violated Ethics Rule 3.8(f)(1) But bar disciplinary committees do not deal in policy arguments; they apply ethical rules. It's a good sign that William Barr cares about equal justice, equal application of our laws and says he will serve as a fair attorney general, writes Julian Zelizer.

Claim: "Obama's tax plan cuts taxes ""for 95 percent of all working families."""
Evidence Summary: As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit, which now appears on track to top $1 trillion this year. If growth fades in the coming years — as many economists believe it will — the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth, which in turn produces increasingly higher revenues.

Claim: "People were hopeless. Sixty percent of the population, 70 percent of the population wanted to live somewhere else. . . . By the time I left, 70 percent wanted to stay."
Evidence Summary: Convinced she has nothing left to lose she is undeterred by the terrible risks ahead. "If I'd stayed in Congo I would have killed myself because I had no family and no money to live on," she says. "Somebody once told me that the rain will one day stop, but for me, the monsoon season lasted for so long that I forgot the sun existed."“I wish all the people see the light and go to the light. Don’t be in the dark.”

Claim: "John Kitzhaber created 128,000 new jobs while governor."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom’s new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. The governor laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation. “Any of those federal employees who are furloughed, come in and we’ll get you unemployment insurance,” he said. ‘It won’t be easy, but let’S confront this challenge with honesty,’ Pritzker said.

Claim: "Despite keeping distance from national media interviewers, I did local press all along, the last three months."
Evidence Summary: “I appreciate that I’m in a place where it doesn’t draw attention,” Lattimore said. “He was very direct and honest with us about what the real world of journalism looks like.” “I think he found his peace and his calling in Chicago in the classroom,’ classmate said.“The fact that he is on social media in touch with people with similar backgrounds, I don't find particularly surprising”

Claim: "What we said was, you can keep (your plan) if it hasnt changed since the law passed."
Evidence Summary: "If we see the need to make a change then we’ll make it," he says. "I hope that we can get progressive change." "I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments. People understand exactly what’s going on," he adds. "Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many of thosePeople agree 100 percent with what I'm doing." "The IRS was still figuring that out. Individuals were still figure that out even with the full funding."

Claim: "In 2006, Bernie Sanders voted in the House with hard-line Republicans for indefinite detention for undocumented immigrants, and then he sided with those Republicans to stand with vigilantes known as Minutemen who were taking up outposts along the border to hunt down immigrants."
Evidence Summary: Sanders said it was "outrageous" and "incomprehensible" for Democrats who have said they favor border security to oppose his border wall. When the new Congress took office on Thursday, Democrats quickly passed two spending bills that would have funded the Department of Homeland Security and fully reopened several other agencies. But none of the bills included any border wall funding, and Senate Republicans and the White House called them nonstarters. Democrats voted in large numbers for border walls in 2006 and 2013. But in 2016, Donald J. Trump did something Democrats consider unforgivable.

Claim: "Says Florida didnt offer special incentives to Deutsche Bank, which announced it will add 300 jobs in Florida."
Evidence Summary: Suspect said he purchased a gun last week and "no one thought anything of it" because he had always liked guns. "The situation is confined to the bank and there is no danger to the surrounding area," police said. This was at least the fourth mass shooting in Florida, with five or more dead, in the last three years. "Every single person I’ve told has not taken it seriously, and it’s very unfortunate that it had to come to this," the suspect's father said.

Claim: "There was a Gallup poll in Egypt last year, and 70 percent of Egyptians dont want our money."
Evidence Summary: In his interview with “60 Minutes,” Sisi denied that Egypt was holding political prisoners. “Why hasn’t the U.S. eliminated the terrorists in Afghanistan after 17 years and spending a trillion dollars?” he asked. Sisi’s critics accuse him of cracking down on all dissent, but supporters say tough measures are needed to stabilize Egypt. America's nearly one and a half billion dollars a year is going to a regime accused of worst abuses in Egypt's modern history.

Claim: "The truth of the matter is that during my administration, the FBI's crime statistics show that violent crime was reduced in Massachusetts by 7 percent."
Evidence Summary: "Since I found out about the investigation I have tried to do the right thing in a situation which, no matter what happened, was never going to be easy for me," he says. "Police and prosecutors have been getting increasingly savvy and creative and aggressive about going after older sex crimes and cover-ups than ever before," he adds. But an unsettling lesson of the Trump presidency is that post-truth politics can be highly effective, especially when it comes to shoring up a political base.

Claim: "We are now, for the first time ever, energy independent."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "Let's see who gets tired first: Those who steal the fuel or us," he adds. “And it becomes an even more important idea when the world becomes digital because things are so fast moving,” he says of the future of clean energy. "That's going to be difficult for new technologies to replace."

Claim: "Last year, Exxon pocketed nearly $4.7 million every hour."
Evidence Summary: The action by the high court marked the latest setback for Exxon in its efforts to halt the Massachusetts investigation and a similar one by New York’s attorney general. Thousands of shale wells drilled in the last five years are pumping less oil and gas than their owners forecast to investors, raising questions about the strength and profitability of the fracking boom that turned the U.S. into an oil superpower. Saudi Aramco is looking to acquire natural gas assets in the United States and is willing to spend "billions of dollars" to become a global gas player.

Claim: "AARP is ""the largest reseller of insurance in the country"" and ""has a vested interest in seeing that the market for reselling supplemental insurance expands."""
Evidence Summary: Annual health care marketing surged from $17.7 billion in 1997 to at least $29.9 billion in 2016. Pharmaceutical marketing to health professionals accounted for the biggest outlay, and climbed from $15.6 billion to $20.3 billion. Health spending in the U.S. is the highest in the world, totaling $3.3 trillion in 2016, or 17.8 percent of the gross domestic product. The exact same products are costing double,” said study coauthor Dr. Steven Woloshin.

Claim: "Medicare monthly premiums will go up to $104.20 in 2012 and $247.00 in 2014 due to provisions incorporated in the Obamacare legislation, purposely delayed so as not to confuse the 2012 re-election campaigns."
Evidence Summary: Researchers examined data on the 75 brand-name prescription drugs associated with the highest Part B spending among fee-for-service Medicare members in 2016. Under the proposed policy change, the researchers estimate, total Part D spending would be $17.6 billion to $20.1 billion, after rebates to insurers and pharmacy benefit managers. The 2003 law that gave seniors the drug benefit also called for income-related premiums for Medicare Part B, the benefits that pay for doctors and outpatient services.

Claim: "Right now, 50 percent of Florida students leaving high school cannot read at grade level."
Evidence Summary: Teachers in Los Angeles public schools went on strike last week, holding 500,000 kids and their parents hostage. They demand more money for the lousy job their system does at providing an education. The Los Angeles Unified School District boasts of graduating about 80 percent of students. But only 60 percent of those who graduated actually completed the necessary coursework, reflecting an unfortunate practice of passing students who don’t actually make the grade. “The problem,” Iwazeki said, “is there is no silver bullet.”

Claim: Marco Rubio voted against funding health clinics that provide critical care during this public health emergency (Zika).
Evidence Summary: House Democrats passed a spending bill to reopen the government that would also have reversed restrictions on funding for international aid organizations that perform abortions or support abortion rights. But the Senate, where Republicans still hold a slim majority, is not budging. If anything, Republican Senate leaders are trying to push further on abortion. On Jan. 3, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) introduced legislation that would consolidate four Middle Eastern policy bills. Among these was the Combating BDS Act, a bill that, like the already existing state laws, seeks to suppress BDS and, ultimately, criticism of Israel at the federal level.

Claim: "There are more African American men in prison, jail, on probation or parole than were enslaved in 1850."
Evidence Summary: When Barr was attorney general in the 1990s, dogmatic, tough-on-crime policies held virtually the same position that progressive policies do now. Barr led the charge toward tightening the grip on young black men, a group perceived as "superpredators" On Tuesday, Barr acknowledged that his policies created today's mass incarceration problem, but he failed to completely renounce them. He also neglected to state that the decades-old war on drugs was a failure — a point now recognized through policies that treat opioid addiction as public health crisis.

Claim: "In first week as governor, Tim Kaine proposed a nearly $4 billion tax increase, $4 billion, including a tax increase on people earning as little as $17,000 a year."
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has called for increasing the top marginal tax rate for some wealthy Americans to as high as 70 percent. Democrats have also proposed a dramatic increase to America’s corporate tax rate. Increasing tax rates on corporations would likely cause a substantial economic slowdown and might even cause corporations that have expanded their operations to lay off newly-hired workers. If enacted, Americans for Tax Reform President Grover Norquist says it would be the highest tax rate in the industrialized world.

Claim: "On Lee Fishers watch, almost nine out of 10 jobs that Ohio lost were lost to other states, not to other countries."
Evidence Summary: For decades, America's trade policy, supported by establishment Democrats as well as establishment Republicans, helped the people at the top -- people like Jeff Flake's donors -- and hurt working Americans. We talked a lot about wage stagnation after the Great Recession 10 years ago. But for most American workers, their wages, after taking account of inflation, were stagnant for decades. And guess who finally turned that around, with the fastest wage increases for a decade last year? The U.S. President.

Claim: "Says on contraception, his plan is cheaper and easier for you than Sen. Mark Udalls"
Evidence Summary: California and the other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. The rules, scheduled to take effect Monday, would change an ObamaCare mandate by allowing more employers to opt out of providing no-cost contraceptive coverage to women by claiming religious objections. Pennsylvania’s attorney general, Josh Shapiro, called the ruling a “victory for the health and economic independence of women.” “Women need contraception for their health because contraception is medicine, pure and simple,” Shapiro said.

Claim: "Families in Del Valle, who are City of Austin residents, have to drive to Bastrop to go to the closest grocery store."
Evidence Summary: Two years later, residents recall the influx of media outsiders with disdain. “They assume we’re a bunch of uneducated hillbillies, without actually learning who we are and what our community is about,” says Lindy Thompson, owner of the Sage Matt cafe, the county’s only diner, in Miami, it's only town. Some here, Thompson included, now refuse to discuss politics in any real depth after the onslaught of coverage. Yet despite their experience of receiving negative coverage, those same residents were more willing than northside residents to be engaged with news organizations.

Claim: "John McCain ""opposed legislation to fund levees and flood control programs, which he considers pork."""
Evidence Summary: Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) was among those expressing qualms about Shanahan's ties to Boeing during his confirmation hearing to be deputy secretary in June 2017. “I am concerned that 90 percent of defense spending is in the hands of five corporations, of which you represent one," McCain told Shanahan. The office of Sen. John Cornyn ( R-Texas) sent out a statement essentially warning against messing with his state’s recovery from Hurricane Harvey, a massive deluge that swamped the Houston area.

Claim: "Mitt Romneys pledged to protect (oil companies) record profits and their billions in special tax breaks, too."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote that he was "pleased that he backed away from imposing a 35 percent tariff on all foreign goods" He also praised Trump for cutting the corporate rate a year ago. Despite the criticism, Romney got this shoutout from departing Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz): "Very pleased GOP Senator-elect Mitt Romney is speaking some truth about @realDonaldTrump" Romney is 71, has two failed presidential campaigns, has a history of flip-flopping on a wide variety of issues, and yet no one in political media is saying he needs to be quiet.

Claim: Says Democrats first proposed prohibiting the government from negotiating prices for prescription drugs in Medicare Part D and he had nothing to do with that provision in the law.
Evidence Summary: House Democrats have named tackling drug prices as one of their top legislative priorities. Proposals include longstanding Democratic plans to allow Medicare to negotiate for lower drug prices and newer ones that would require the government to make generic medicines. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders even has a proposal that has the same approach as a Trump administration plan – lowering prices by tying them to what other countries pay. Democrats have been critical of efforts by the Trump administration to bring down drug prices after Trump, a Republican, promised to do so during his 2016 campaign.

Claim: The typical white male worker in this country is making in real terms what he was making in 1973 and the average worker is making what they were making in 1996.
Evidence Summary: Rep. Elijah Cummings is accusing President Donald Trump of reaping substantial financial benefits from his White House job. Cummings: We need to get back to a place in this 21st Century where the economy works for everybody. The White House says Cummings’ claims are “completely baseless,” adding that it “cannot comment further about ongoing litigation.’“You used to be able to work 40 hours, even on minimum wage, and provide for your family. And we do not think that this wage system is right.”

Claim: "A United Nations arms treaty would almost certainly force the U.S. to create an international gun registry, setting the stage for full-scale gun confiscation."
Evidence Summary: The 2018 midterm elections gave Democrats control of the House for the first time since 2010. But Republicans still control the Senate and White House, and it seems unlikely that Senate Republicans or President Donald Trump, who claims to be a staunch pro-gun ally, would deliver a victory to Democrats. The National Rifle Association quickly denounced the proposal, calling it an effort to “score political points” and arguing that “so-called universal background checks will never be universal because criminals do not comply with the law”

Claim: "When we took office, let me remind you, there was virtually no international pressure on Iran."
Evidence Summary: U.S. President Donald Trump last year pulled out of an international pact on Iran’s nuclear program. The measures have hit Iran's economy hard. “The sanctions do put pressure on the country and the people,” Khamenei said. But he promised his audience that the Trump administration was ushering in a new era of U.S.-Iranian relations. The administration has steadily ratcheted up pressure on Tehran and accuses the nation of being the most destabilizing influence in the region.

Claim: "In the United States, weve had 12 years in a row of wages declining."
Evidence Summary: Wages in manufacturing suffered one of the largest declines in real wages, which slipped 2.4 percent last year. Transportation witnessed the biggest dip, with real wages losing 3.9 percent compared with a year earlier. At the same time, the tech sector roared ahead, with wages rising 2.7 percent. In a 180-degree shift, within a few months after President Trump took office, we went from an economy where the biggest problem was workers being unable to find good paying jobs, to one where businesses are struggling to find qualified employees.

Claim: "In the last few months alone, we have apprehended extremists within our borders who were sent here from the border region of Afghanistan and Pakistan to commit new acts of terror."
Evidence Summary: Terrorist groups like al-Qaida and ISIS spend time talking about, brainstorming, and even fantasizing about ways in which they can do harm to the United States. “We cannot speak to dead terrorists. We can speak for dead victims. They demand that policymakers take risks to ensure that the people who wish to harm us through a corrupt ideology are engaged, not shunned,” he said. He added: “This should happen not because states are weak, but because they are confident the strength of their values will ultimately prevail.”

Claim: "As governor, I've stood up to ... the big oil companies."
Evidence Summary: Washington Gov. Jay Inslee is the second governor to sign the pledge, following Minnesota Gov. Gavin Newsom. The vow, administered by a coalition of 16 left-leaning environmental groups, commits candidates to “adopt a policy to not knowingly accept any contributions over $200 from the PACs, executives, or front groups of fossil fuel companies” Colorado Gov. Jared Polis said he was disappointed in the court’s ruling and that it “only highlights the need to work with the Legislature and the Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation Commission”

Claim: "This year, were off to our best private-sector jobs growth since 1999."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. private sector added 271,000 jobs in December, according to a report released Thursday. Stock prices rose on the economic news, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average closing Friday with a 3.3% gain. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion. "It really was a banner year," said Martha Gimbel, director of economic research at the Indeed Hiring Lab, pointing to the effects of the tax cuts.

Claim: "Says abortion doctors are flying into this state, performing abortions and flying out."
Evidence Summary: Sarah Valliere is a family medicine physician and a fellow with Physicians for Reproductive Health. She says the last clinic in Nashville, Tennessee, has stopped providing abortions. Now that the Nashville clinics are closed, we’re looking at a place where people have to drive three hours in one direction to get an abortion, she says. Valliere: This is the right time for me to share my story so that the women and families of Texas, which I will always call home, know that there’s someone in their corner.

Claim: "A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry."
Evidence Summary: The Fight for $15 movement has upended the power imbalance in America’s low-wage economy. By sticking together on the job, workers have convinced politicians, voters and employers that $15 an hour is the bare minimum anyone needs to survive. Unions have historically empowered working people to have a voice and a say in how they’re treated, making it possible to win decent pay and benefits that could lift a family and lift communities. The key to the movement's success has been the fearlessness and courage of workers who, even without the protection of a union, have acted like a union anyway.

Claim: "Federal Reserve policies have led to a 69 percent rise in corn prices, 44 percent rise in wheat prices and 15 percent spike in sugar prices over the last year."
Evidence Summary: Minutes of the U.S. central bank’s Dec. 18-19 policy meeting published on Wednesday showed “many” officials were of the view that the Fed “could afford to be patient about further policy firming” In December, gasoline prices dropped 7.5 percent after tumbling 4.2 percent in November. Food prices increased 0.4 percent, the biggest gain since May 2014, after rising 0.2% in November, the government said.

Claim: "For the first time ever, we completely funded the critical needs waiting list so persons with unique abilities can get the help they need."
Evidence Summary: "There is no one who can deny the effectiveness of that. Let's just do that and propose that and get some funding for that type of measure" "Every day our people care for thousands of patients and I am so proud that their fantastic commitment and hard work has been recognised" "A lot of this relies on the pharmaceutical companies and others, so it isn’t entirely in the gift of the government" "I’ve been very pleased with the response of the pharmaceutical industry who obviously take this incredibly seriously"

Claim: "Paul Ryan got his start in politics, as a young staffer just out of college, working for then-Congressman John Kasichs Budget Committee."
Evidence Summary: Even supporters of Paul Ryan, happy about the $5 billion package to fund the wall and avoid the shutdown, note that he did nothing to solve this crisis. In Ryan’s final official speech, he expressed regret for a host of policy goals he leaves unfinished, ranging from tackling the debt to immigration reform. After all, the GOP just lost control of the House. And blame is better to give than receive. John R. Kasich, the governor of Ohio, was a Republican House member from 1983 to 2001. Follow him on Twitter: @JohnKasich.

Claim: "Because of the 2011 debt ceiling fight, the stock market lost 2,000 points."
Evidence Summary: The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 156.97 points, or 0.64 percent, to 24,561.45. Tensions with China and comments by the Federal Reserve chairman, Jerome H. Powell, about rising borrowing costs helped crater stocks, which suffered their steepest declines since the February rout. Most presidents don’t talk much about the stock market, for good reasons: It’s not a particularly reliable evaluator of presidential policies, or the best reflection of the state of the economy.

Claim: "Since Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker took office, we are losing jobs at rates not seen in decades."
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide.

Claim: "Says U.S. Senate rival Tammy Baldwin supports a tax increase that President Obama says would cost middle-class families $3,000 per year."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's wealth tax proposal reflects the Democratic Party's leftward drift on economic policy and tax issues. Democratic politicians have traditionally shied away from proposing how they would raise revenue, for fear of being branded "tax and spend" liberals. Republicans are likely to seize on the plan as another example of Democrats looking to tax Americans' hard-earned gains, even though it would apply to only a tiny percentage of the population. Democrats should also focus on fixing the child tax credit expansion in the new tax law, which failed to include the poorest families.

Claim: "Says unions take away hard-earned money of teachers, firefighters and police officers to play politics."
Evidence Summary: L.A. teachers strike could set stage for how issues play out in the 2020 election and beyond. The union rejected the district’s latest offer, which involved pay raises, smaller class sizes and increased support staff. In the background is tension over the expansion of charter schools and questions over who gets to control the direction of the district. Nearly every leader in this fight is a Democrat, with the two sides representing larger fissures within the Democratic Party about the future of public education.

Claim: "14,000 Americans . . . lose their health insurance every single day."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. Before the health care law’s major pieces went into effect during 2014, the uninsured rate peaked at 18 percent. But in the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent, not far from today's mark. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare.

Claim: "Mr. Trump is self-financing his campaign, so we dont have any donors."
Evidence Summary: Former Maryland Rep. John Delaney is using his personal fortune to pay for his campaign. Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is widely seen as considering a bid. Both men have historically funded their own campaigns. Howard Dean, who pioneered online fundraising, and John Kerry, who spent millions of his own cash, both tossed aside a pledge to raise money for the party. The New York Times reported in December that allies of both Gillibrand and Harris were discussing creating super PACs. "I have the biggest anti-corruption proposals since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington, you think?"

Claim: "Nearly 2,000 high schools - roughly 12 percent of all secondary schools in the United States - produce about half of the nations dropouts."
Evidence Summary: In the decades-long push to open college doors wide, an unintended casualty has been the college dropout. The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960, with an estimated 20 percent of working adults having some college credits, but no degree. Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education: The 4 out of 10 students who start college and don't finish in at least six years.

Claim: "Embryonic stem cell research is at a dead end, with no one good example of a successful treatment."
Evidence Summary: "The biggest issue I'm concerned about is potentially feeding this whole dubious area of medicine," Vox says. Stem cell therapies use stem cells in injections or tissue transplants to try to treat or prevent diseases. The FDA has approved stem cell treatments that use cells from cord blood to treat a limited group of disorders affecting the body system that produces blood. It warns most other types of stem cell therapy are unproven, and can be unsafe. The authors searched crowdfunding platforms for people seeking treatment at more than 300 direct-to-consumer stem cell clinics.

Claim: "Wisconsin has only one county, Dane, thats hand counting the votes in the 2016 presidential recount."
Evidence Summary: A group of six Porter County residents, working in bipartisan pairs at separate tables, shuffled and went through stacks of ballots from the November general election. The recorder’s race had the tightest margin of the selected races, with around a 3 percent difference, so will require examining the most ballots. In all, VSTOP officials have said, 4,671 of the 65,449 ballots cast for recorder will be hand tallied, and the other races and the ballot measure will be tallied along the way.

Claim: "As the usage [of synthetic marijuana] has dramatically increased, instances of violence, bodily harm and even death have risen with it."
Evidence Summary: In the 1930s, numerous media reports exaggerated the connection between marijuana use by black people and violent crimes. A new book by former New York Times investigative reporter Alex Berenson cites that report and other research in sounding an alarm about the swift and radical change that has seen recreational marijuana legalized in 10 states. The main effects of smoking marijuana are contentment, relaxation, sedation, euphoria and increased hunger. In November 2018, Michigan became the 10th state to legalize recreational cannabis use; New Jersey and others may soon follow.

Claim: "Out of 150,000 tenured teachers in the last 10 years, only 17 have been dismissed for incompetence."
Evidence Summary: Teachers in the Los Angeles Unified School District went on strike this week. Our grievances include inflated class sizes, a lack of full-time nurses in 80% of the district’s schools. A student-counselor ratio so bad our demand is to bring it down to 500 to 1. The district has violated our contract's class size limits for years. Last month the California Public Employment Relations Board’S neutral factfinder called it “unacceptable.”

Claim: "In 1929, the Secretary of State shut down a program that was collecting information to protect America because it was unseemly, but that move led to millions and millions of deaths in World War II."
Evidence Summary: Michael Sayers and Albert E. Kahn provide facsimiles of Japanese spy maps of the U.S. West Coast, intercepted letters mailed by German spies in America. Americans were shocked by the book’s revelations that German spies were in the country. A retaliatory bomb, directed at Palmer, exploded outside his house in Washington, nearly killing his neighbor, Franklin Roosevelt. A vigorous government response led to the creation of the F.B.I. and a series of raids conducted by an overzealous attorney general.

Claim: "Says Connie Mack initially said he would have voted yes for the Paul Ryan budget plan, and then, you said it was stupid and you would vote no. And then your folks corrected you, and you changed your position again, yes."
Evidence Summary: The majority of the piece echoed Romney’s March 2016 condemnation of Trump. Republicans, meanwhile, sought to turn the tables on Democrats, claiming they aren't interested in getting things done. “When you have a president who lies consistently and pathologically and then you see him scripted once every blue moon, you don’t buy it,” a Republican strategist said. ‘I’m a strong believer in stating your position and not wavering,’ Romney said in 2002.

Claim: The state budget proposal has been submitted on time and [its] the earliest that a governor has done so in over two decades.
Evidence Summary:  Cuomo, a Democrat in his third term, is required to release a budget proposal by February 1. Among the new initiatives he'll propose: A nearly $2 billion investment in early childhood education and child care and $40 million more for the state's community college system. It's unclear how much focus he'll put on government-run health care in his first term. He backed a 2017 bill that ultimately died in the Legislature, but said it remains a priority.Such a budget would take all summer to compile, and would get final approval in October.

Claim: Ohio is not meeting its obligation to update voter registrations when voters change their address with the BMV.
Evidence Summary: Ohio's elections chief said Wednesday that more than 275,000 inactive Ohio voters are about to get their final opportunity to keep from dropping off the rolls. Starting in 2020, young people will be permitted to preregister to vote when they are 16 and 17. State and federal primaries are now required to be scheduled on the same day, ameliorating a practice that cost the state millions, confused voters, and likely depressed turnout. Officials must also automatically update people's voter registrations when they move.

Claim: "What we have now is the most generous, in my opinion, good time bill in the entire United States."
Evidence Summary: "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he says. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing when you look at who is representing us," he adds.

Claim: There is no Plan B if the transportation referendum is not passed by voters.
Evidence Summary: The machines print out barcodes that correspond to the voter's selections, as well as a separate list that's readable by a voter. But votes are counted by machines that scan the barcodes, so there's no way for voters to know whether what's scanned actually reflects their votes, says Marilyn Marks, executive director of the Coalition for Good Governance. Voters may not notice if a race is missing or may not remember how they voted on, say, "Statewide Referendum B"

Claim: "Barack Obama wrote a thesis at Columbia University in which he criticized ""plutocratic thugs"" and said the Constitution gave Americans ""the shackles of hypocrisy."""
Evidence Summary: In 2009, then president-elect Obama expressed “a belief that we need to look forward as opposed to looking backwards” in previewing his administration’s free pass to George W. Bush alumni. That view was at odds with a commitment to justice, since, by its very nature, justice is always retrospective. The view was also a political calamity, as it created a path for Bush's enablers in Congress to secure historic victories in the 2010 midterms.

Claim: "Youll find blacks in almost every regiment throughout the South who fought right alongside white Southerners, during the Civil War."
Evidence Summary: "You can't tell an honest story about the Civil War without including African-American testimony and particular facts in your story," he says. "We are thoroughly convinced that the killing of Jazmine Barnes was race related," he adds. "Racism and white supremacy are wicked. They’re incompatible with what we know to be true, that every person is made with untold dignity and value," Barnes' father adds. 'We've got to call it what it is. Black people are being targeted in this country,' he says, "and in this county'

Claim: "The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly) is the DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women."
Evidence Summary: Mosquito-borne virus that causes Rift Valley fever may severely injure human fetuses if contracted by mothers during pregnancy. Researchers used infected rats and human fetal tissue to discover how the virus targets the placenta. Results showed that the virus may be even more damaging to fetuses than the Zika virus, which set off a global crisis in 2015. Women who are pregnant or lactating are currently denied the experimental vaccine for Ebola, a policy described as “utterly indefensible” by health experts.

Claim: Our economy still has three people looking for every job (opening).
Evidence Summary: Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. Even wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains, and African-Americans, whose jobless rate has reached record lows. “2018 was a banner year for the labor market,” said Julia Pollak, a labor economist at the online employment market site ZipRecruiter.

Claim: "Carly Fiorina, shes against banning assault weapons."
Evidence Summary: "We need to make sure that we don't have to go back and forth," she says. "We don't want to be in a position where we have to wait and see what the outcome is," she adds. "I think we need to get ahead of the game and make sure we have a plan in place to prevent this from happening again" "We need a plan to prevent it from happening in the first place, and I don't think we can do that if we let it happen again and again," says Rep. Steve Israel.

Claim: "Hillary's baby bond proposal would give $5,000 to each of the 4-million babies born in the U.S. each year, totaling $20-billion per year, multiplied by four years = $80-billion."
Evidence Summary: It could come close to funding the entirety of Sanders’s free college tuition plan ($800bn) The LIFT the Middle Class Act would build on the earned income tax credit by providing monthly cash payments of up to $500 to lower-income families. The “Baby Bonds’ proposal from Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., would deposit $1,000 in an account for every child at birth in a secure and steady investment. Up to 80 million Americans would benefit, and millions would be lifted out of poverty.

Claim: "Says her campaign platform includes the biggest investment in new, good-paying jobs since World War II."
Evidence Summary: Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren is running for re-election in Massachusetts. She is facing a challenge from a more moderate Democratic establishment keen on keeping power. Warren says she has the "biggest anti-corruption proposal since Watergate" She also touted her push to build 3.2 million housing units across the country, called for legalizing marijuana, repairing the criminal justice system, and touted “I believe in science.” The big items on her agenda: expanding Medicaid, boosting school funding and hiring more workers at...

Claim: "Joe Biden brought Republicans and Democrats together to pass the 1994 crime bill, putting 100,000 cops on the streets and starting an eight-year drop in crime across the country."
Evidence Summary: Former Vice-President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said Monday he made a mistake in supporting tough-on-crime drug legislation of the 1980s and 1990s. Joe Biden's comments come as he is in the final stages of deciding whether to run for the presidency. Chicago mayoral candidate Toni Preckwinkle said she would “put a freeze” on building a controversial police and fire training academy on the West Side “until further review.” Young activists have called for the project to be scuttled, arguing the money would be better spent on job training.

Claim: If Rhode Island does a hybrid [retirement] plan well be the first state in the nation to do this.
Evidence Summary: Dozens of state lawmakers have already opted out of the pension system. The General Assembly should take the lead and phase out their own defined-benefit system. Michigan found a middle road to pension reform – making a distinction between already-earned benefits and yet-to-be-earned future benefits. A constitutional amendment making the same distinction in Illinois would be transformative, writes John Sutter. The shifts in the country’s financial security arrangements and health coverage resulted from major policy changes the public knew little about, he says.

Claim: "Before the terrorist attacks in Benghazi, the State Department not only failed to honor repeated requests for additional security, but instead actually reduced security in Libya."
Evidence Summary: U.S. ambassador in Kenya says the United States is working closely with Kenyan authorities following the extremist attack in Nairobi this week. Ambassador Robert F. Godec in a statement on Thursday also dismissed "false reports on social media" He warned Americans to stay away from the DusitD2 complex before it was attacked on Tuesday. He also calls for a better channel of communication between the government and the public, not just in the aftermath of attacks but as a norm so that intelligence from the civilians can be properly gathered.

Claim: "In 1999, the NRA leadership in Washington, pretty much the same people intact, were for (expanded background checks.)"
Evidence Summary: The bill is co-sponsored by Reps. Mike Thompson, D-Calif., and Peter King, R-N.Y. The National Rifle Association, a powerful gun rights advocacy group, opposes the bill. Gun safety groups say an expansion of the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), established in 1994 under the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, is long overdue. Since that law’s passage, background checks have blocked an estimated 3 million prohibited gun purchases, according to the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence.

Claim: "8 years of the Clintons, major losses for Democrats across the nation."
Evidence Summary: Democrats, having taken control of the House after November’s blue wave, are suddenly much less afraid. And they’re listening to the base that elected them, which is demanding that they hold firm and hit hard.“Republicans just need to stay together, and I believe that will happen,” Nadler said last year. “I am proud to be here to announce that I will do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes to remove a president.”

Claim: "It used to be the policy of the Republican Party to get rid of the Department of Education. We finally get in charge and a chance to do something, so we double the size of the Department of Education."
Evidence Summary: Public education is central to Roberts county's continued prosperity. Roberts county voted for a local tax increase in 2014 to fund the construction of a modern school building. “I’m just conservative in my values and views and a lot of the things Mr Trump believes, I agree with,” said Miami Independent School District principal Mark Driskell.“I look at some of the predatory, for-profit educations that just don’t care. I think schools should be actively trying to determine who will be successful and that’s part of your job.”

Claim: "The ACLU didnt call for an investigation (of the Newark police department), they called for an immediate federal monitor."
Evidence Summary: The ACLU said it is "outraged" and demanded the Kent County sheriff immediately investigate. The decision drew praise from the Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 7, the union that represents rank-and-file officers. McCarthy was fired in Chicago by Mayor Rahm Emanuel amid the fallout of the McDonald shooting, which also resulted in a federal civil rights investigation into the Chicago department. He defended his frequent remarks on the history of racial disparity in Chicago and the country, noting that he made similar comments when he was superintendent in Newark.

Claim: "If the House of Representatives fails to extend the middle-class tax cuts, 400,000 middle-class Rhode Island families will see their federal income taxes increase."
Evidence Summary: In Illinois, 76 percent of respondents to a Paul Simon Public Policy Institute poll expressed support for an extra 3-percent tax on income over $1 million. 72 percent gave a thumbs-up to the idea of graduated income taxes. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations, at a cost of $1.9 trillion over 10 years. Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy, such as building and maintaining roads so everyone can get to their daily jobs.

Claim: "Eight out of the nine states with competitive Senate races, Hispanics make up less than 10 percent of the electorate."
Evidence Summary: The 116th Congress is the most diverse in U.S. history. But the physical presence of people of color in Congress does not automatically equal robust political advocacy. The kind of progressive, some might even say radical, changes that have been promised by some of this year’s new representatives are far from guaranteed. The Hispanic portion of the United States population today is similar to the portion in California in the early 1990s. About 20 percent of the country is Hispanic; in 1990, 26 percent of California's population was.

Claim: "If you actually took the number of Muslims [sic] Americans, we'd be one of the largest Muslim countries in the world."
Evidence Summary: In falsely seeing ourselves as a force for what ails the Middle East, we were timid about asserting ourselves when the times—and our partners—demanded it. It is untrue that Obama claimed radical Islamic terrorism does not stem from ideology. The word ideology appears nowhere in that earlier speech. What he said was that the 9/11 terrorists did not represent the full face of Islam.“Whenever there is a minority trying to impose their extremist ideology ... we have to intervene regardless of their numbers,” he said.

Claim: "Says Nikita Khrushchev brought an extra shoe to a United Nations session in 1960, which he banged on the desk in protest."
Evidence Summary: Despite the United States’ rejection of the Russian offer, Moscow went ahead Wednesday with its show-and-tell for a wider audience. Richard Nixon sometimes met with foreign leaders, including Soviet Premier Leonid Brezhnev, without a note taker. Nixon tape-record those conversations without the other party knowing it. The notes of the 10 hours of conversations between Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev at the historic 1986 summit in Reykjavik, Iceland, have been declassified.

Claim: "Low-flow toilets can cost homeowners up to $1,000 each."
Evidence Summary: Tiger Toilets is the startup venture behind the wacky worm-inspired idea. The toilet design itself, which costs 25,000 rupees (around US$350) per unit, isn’t complicated. Gates is convinced that poop can pay, predicting that low-cost toilets will grow into a $6 billion-a-year market by 2030. Sanergy’s community toilets cost around $350 to assemble ― far less than conventional community toilets, which can run as much as $25,000.

Claim: "Sen. Joe Liebermans home state has a public option which covers about 10,000 of its citizens that was introduced by its Republican governor."
Evidence Summary: The result was a sharp drop in insurance premiums, which are now among the lowest in the nation. Gavin Newsom, California’s new governor, has proposed further action on health care. New Mexico is considering a plan that would allow any resident to buy into the state's Medicaid program. And New York City’S mayor is proposing measures that would, he says, guarantee coverage for all New Yorkers, including undocumented immigrants. The proposals fell short of the sweeping government-run single-payer plan Newsom had supported during his campaign.

Claim: "Says this months special session will cost the state $27,300 a day just for legislators daily living expenses."
Evidence Summary: The 101st class of New York state lawmakers takes office this week. They must learn how to navigate, both literally and metaphorically, the corridors of a State Capitol fabled for its traditions, secrets and, often, impenetrability. The Times followed four of the new senators on Tuesday and Wednesday to see how they were adjusting to a state lawmaker’s life. The New York Legislature created a committee composed of current and former state and New York City comptrollers to determine whether members of the Assembly and State Senate deserved a raise.

Claim: "In France, they have a (surveillance) program a thousandfold more invasive than the United States."
Evidence Summary: Despite surveillance capitalism’s domination of the digital milieu, most people find it difficult to withdraw. This does not mean, however, that we are foolish, lazy, or hapless. In my book I explore numerous reasons that explain how surveillance capitalists got away with creating the strategies that keep us paralysed. These include the historical, political and economic conditions that allowed them to succeed. And we’ve already discussed some of the other key reasons, including the nature of the unprecedented, conquest by declaration.

Claim: "One-half of undocumented workers pay federal income taxes, which means they are paying more federal income taxes than Donald Trump pays."
Evidence Summary: President Trump's tweet on Saturday was crammed with statistics that were either exaggerated or omitted important context. Out of the Bureau of Prisons’ total inmate population of 183,058 in the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year, 21 percent were immigrants, both legal and undocumented. While illegal immigrants may also drive up the cost of government services in some places, they also make up for it by paying taxes. Trump has claimed his tax returns are complicated and has maintained he will not release them while they are under audit by the Internal Revenue Service.

Claim: "Since the United States began negotiations with Iran, thats probably the first year and a half in which Iran has not advanced its nuclear program in the last decade."
Evidence Summary: Bolton is not the only Iran hawk in Mr. Trump’s circle of top advisers. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned Iran against launching three spacecraft. In theory, no Islamic country is better positioned than Iran to play a leading role in the Middle East. But that potential has been stunted because of Iran's continued meddling in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Lebanon, writes John Sutter. The lesson of 2003 is that threats work in compelling Iran to abandon its nuclear program, he says.

Claim: "Says Ohios I-X Center used to be a great plant, but thousands of people of worked here, and they left when their jobs were moved overseas."
Evidence Summary: Despite all the turmoil in this world, Illinoisans continue to build, innovate, create and dream. We have nearly 13,000 manufacturing firms in Illinois that employ more than 580,000 people. One out of 10 computer science degrees in the nation comes from Illinois colleges and universities. Our agriculture sector is built on some of the most fertile soil in the world, and it’s expanding, employing nearly a million people in every part of the state. For the people at that table, with almost 150 years of experience, the job was more than a job. It was about the people.

Claim: "Weve got a 1,000 National Guard troop request thats been in front of this president for over a year and no response."
Evidence Summary: During the midterms, in a $200 million political stunt, he ordered troops to the nation’s southern border to bolster his claim of an invasion from a group of bedraggled asylum-seekers. He turned his one and only visit to troops in a war zone into a campaign rally, replete with MAGA hats and excoriations of Democrats for not funding his wall. The president has also threatened, despite the full illegality of it, that he will use the military to build the wall if the Democrats won’t capitulate to his demands.

Claim: "Under a new law, doctors performing drug-induced abortions could be charged if women dont return to them for follow-up care"
Evidence Summary: Ushma Upadhyay, Sarah Valliere: As Roe v. Wade turns 46, state legislators are planning more anti-abortion laws. They say requiring doctors to have hospital admitting privileges does more harm than good for women. The assertion that admitting privileges laws protect patients is yet another false argument, they say. The courts have a legal and ethical responsibility to weigh the benefits of these laws against the harm they cause to patients, the writers say, and they should vote for them.

Claim: "At a minimum, 40 percent of those who view child pornography end up molesting children as a result."
Evidence Summary: Older women have become perpetrators of these early child marriages. “A woman is not complete without marriage, they say.” “When girls are left behind, half the population is left behind’ “ “You rarely even see anyone put a condom on, and never the fiddly bit”“You can have sexual experience without risk” But there are things you could never learn from pornography. � “They don’t have minor mishaps in porn”

Claim: "In 67 different ways, Governor McCrory has raised taxes on middle income families."
Evidence Summary: In Illinois, 76 percent of respondents to a Paul Simon Public Policy Institute poll expressed support for an extra 3-percent tax on income over $1 million. Conservatives who have pushed down top marginal tax rates have so far kept such initiatives at bay. They’ve done this in part by branding high marginal rates as socialism, and by peddling the falsehood — to children, no less! — that the rates apply to every dollar earned. The tax rates in Illinois have become excessive, the poll found.

Claim: Romney adviser admits Romneycare was blueprint for Obamacare.
Evidence Summary: Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. In his first run for public office against then-Sen. Ted Kennedy (D) in 1994 and later in his successful 2002 race for governor of Massachusetts, Romney declared himself a strong supporter of abortion rights. In 2012, facing a much different electorate, Romney promptly abandoned that stance and called for defunding Planned Parenthood to win the evangelical-heavy Republican presidential primaries. Romney’s win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump.

Claim: "Its hard to get people in Portland to vote yes on ballot measures, especially when theres opposition."
Evidence Summary: "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes," he says. "I hope that we can get progressive change." "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner" "You just have to understand: You have to ask for votes.” “I think there could be a little bit of that,” he said.

Claim: "We spend more money on health care per capita in the United States than any other country in the world. Of the 30 developed countries in the world, we spend 2 1/2 times more than the average. Of the country that spends the second most per capita, Switzerland, we spend 175 percent more."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. In 2018, pollsters found 13.7% of Americans lacked health insurance, the highest levels since 2014. This fact has perplexed international health advocates, such as the former UN secretary general Ban Ki Moon, who told the Guardian the American health system is “morally wrong”

Claim: "Says he worked with the Democratic legislature to balance spending with revenues so that at the end of my four-year term, the rainy day fund was established at more than $2 billion."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Newsom inherited a $28 billion deficit and left him a $14 billion surplus. He also created an $18 billion so-called rainy day fund to help the state get through what is widely viewed as an inevitable coming recession. Mr. Brown’s insistence on holding onto state revenues was a source of continued friction with Democratic allies in the Legislature. “We will aim high and we will work like hell to get there,” he said in his inaugural address.

Claim: "In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year."
Evidence Summary: Roe v. Wade legalized abortion in the U.S. in 1973. At the time, viability was estimated to be between 24 and 28 weeks gestation. Medical developments reveal when life starts and what lifesaving in-utero procedures are possible. The figures on neonaticide - the act of a parent murdering their own child during the first hours of its life - are hard to pin down, says Cheryl Meyer, an associate dean of the Wright State School of Professional Psychology in Ohio. In 1972, according to Centers for Disease Control statistics, 39 women in the United States died from illegal abortions.

Claim: "Just about everyone everywhere is spending more hours on the job, less time with their families, bringing home smaller and smaller paychecks, while theyre paying more and more at the gas pump and the grocery stores."
Evidence Summary: “We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.” “If you want to put America first, you’ve got to put its families first" “We need to get back to a place in this 21st Century where that is true. The economy works for everybody.’ “It’s what we should be working desperately to avoid. But socialism is exactly what we’re going to get’

Claim: "Wisconsins criminal threshold for drunken-driving is way out of line with states surrounding us, which have the second offense as a felony."
Evidence Summary: The state ranks 20th in population but has landed among the top 15 states for drunken-driving arrests every year from 2005 through 2017. In 2015 alone, nearly 200 people were killed and an additional 2,900 were injured in alcohol-related crashes in the state. At a time when some states have talked about lowering their DUI limit — Utah just set its threshold at a nation-low of 0.05 percent blood alcohol content — Wisconsin remains the only state in the nation that treats a first offense as a civil violation akin to a speeding ticket rather than a crime.

Claim: "The poverty level in the Dallas school district is one of the highest in the country, higher than New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Houston, Detroit and Newark."
Evidence Summary: The Los Angeles public school population is one of the most vulnerable in the country. 80 percent of students qualify as low income. California's public school funding per student lags behind the national average. "Is there not a crisis here with classrooms as large as 50 students?" Dokoupil asked. "We want to reach them all and we want the basic supports that most schools in this country take for granted – or used to," she said. "The problem,” Iwazeki said, “is there is no silver bullet.”

Claim: "In 2007, when Nancy Pelosi met with President Assad of Syria, nobody got upset."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi alarmed fellow Democrats when she met with Donald Trump during his transition to president. She took a secret trip to Syria and met with President Bashar Assad, who has been accused of war crimes and genocide. Pelosi said she and Bush “had our differences of opinion, especially on the war in Iraq, but we had many areas of agreement and we were able to work together in respectful ways.” But these days, the woman who is expected to be re-elected Thursday as speaker acknowledges some nostalgia about dealing with the former GOP president.

Claim: "For the past eight years, Gov. Carcieri and Mrs. Carcieri would host the lighting of the State House Christmas tree."
Evidence Summary: "It’s rehabilitation, reformative, taking care of the family," Lizeth says. "It's 1,000 percent better," than anything she expected to have, Lizeth said. "We have to do something," she adds. "I know I can achieve them.” "I want very much for them to go to a public school just like I went to public schools,” Lizeth adds. “It has to encompass all parts of the country.’

Claim: "Says Demond Means, turnaround district superintendent for Milwaukee Public Schools, said the district needs to be gutted."
Evidence Summary: The more overcrowded and burdened the regular schools, the easier for charters to recruit students. The more students the district loses, the less money, and the worse its finances. Austin Beutner, the district’s relatively new superintendent, has proposed breaking up the district into 32 mini-fiefdoms. The union, for its part, points to a $1.8bn reserve fund – a fund the district says it needs to meet a growing shortfall in pension and health benefit obligations.

Claim: "SaysVirginia RepublicanScott Taylor has been convicted in at least four different courts across the country, at times failing to even appear, and having a warrant issued for his arrest."
Evidence Summary: The suit was originally brought in October by Deric Lostutter, who filed the case on his own without attorneys. Lostutter was convicted of a felony in 2017 in connection to hacking a fan page for athletics at Steubenville High School. The Fair Elections Legal Network and Kentucky Equal Justice Center intervened to represent Lostutter and the three additional plaintiffs last week. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said the suspect is "an individual who needs to face very swift and exacting justice". Willie Cochran 20th ward Scheduled for trial June 3.

Claim: "Says Mahatma Gandhi once said, First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win."
Evidence Summary: "Kashmiri body bags and anti-Pakistan rhetoric sells well in India for gaining votes," said Parvez, the human rights activist. Modi's policies have also had the unintended consequence of strengthening the resolve of those fighting for an end to India's rule in Kashmir. "How can any Kashmiri ever back India?" said Ali Mohammed, one of the Parrays' neighbors. "Supporting India is like supporting soldiers killing and blinding children and destroying our homes. Supporting India is just inhumane."

Claim: "Savings that I achieved helped fund cameras on the border. As a result, more than 21,500 arrests have been made and 46 tons of narcotics confiscated."
Evidence Summary: "This is the cycle of human suffering that I am determined to end," he said. Trump surrounded himself with border agents, victims of horrible crimes, an AK-47 and an AR-15 rifle, and a trash bag stuffed with $362,062 in cash that had been confiscated by law enforcement officials. In his view, it all added up to a single word, “crisis,” with a lone solution, building a wall — a point he emphasized in a discussion with crime victims.

Claim: "Deregulation of the states telecommunications industry will create 50,000 jobs in Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers' claims jumped. Cities and states should focus on broader types of employment to extend economic improvement to every part of society, says David Lewis, CEO of human resources outsourcer and consultancy OperationsInc. The 2020 Health Insurance Tax (HIT) will make beneficiaries pay more for their coverage, which they simply cannot afford, says the Better Medicare Alliance. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," says the group.

Claim: "We admit about 100,000 permanent immigrants from the Middle East every year."
Evidence Summary: Trudeau has prioritized increasing Canada’s refugee admissions since his earliest days as prime minister. The country has resettled more than 40,000 Syrian refugees since his administration came into power in the fall of 2015. About 1 in 5 current Canadians are immigrants, with more than 6 million arriving since 1990. For Canada to add 1 million immigrants over the next three years, the nation would need to welcome approximately 350,000 -- roughly 1 percent of its current population -- in each of 2019, 2020 and 2021.

Claim: "Nearly 14,000 Wisconsinites have lost their job since Governor Walker and the Republicans took over in January."
Evidence Summary: Walker divided and deeply scarred Wisconsin. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said. He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide.

Claim: "Says in the last 20 years, the French have not stood by the United States on foreign policy."
Evidence Summary: It is to Britain's great collective shame that it appears set on abandoning the field and retreating into delusional nostalgia for an imagined past. Thank goodness Macron and Merkel, for all their faults and weaknesses, can still see the bigger picture. These days, for the most part, Britain’s small-minded leaders cannot see beyond their rather stuck-up noses. The year was 1953, and the main target of American ire was France, whose delay in ratifying the European... “Terrorists can’t be your partners & allies.”

Claim: "For the average middle-class family, your taxes today are lower than when I took office."
Evidence Summary: Walker failed on both counts Tuesday when he tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize the congresswoman’s proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down. “Imagine if you did chores for your grandma and she gave you $10. When you got home, your parents took $7 from you,” Walker told 5th graders.

Claim: "There's more than 100,000 people working at the Department of Agriculture. That's 1 employee for every 30 farmers."
Evidence Summary: "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many of thosePeople agree 100 percent with what I’m doing," he says. "It's a matter of, Can they do the job?" he asks of the federal government. "We need the government to start focusing on our education," he adds. "The only thing we’re interested in is the giant sheds where sometimes tens of thousands of animals are housed in horrible conditions for a very short life"

Claim: "Says thousands at a Manhattan rally for Donald Trump were chanting We hate Muslims, we hate blacks, we want our great country back."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump tweeted his support for the Covington Catholic students, saying that they "have become symbols of Fake News and how evil it can be" A series of videos of the incident, which took place on Jan. 19, showed various sides of the story, with some showing one student appearing to smirk while standing facing a chanting Native American man. The students, many of whom were wearing the easily-identifiable "Make America Great Again" hats popularized by President Trump, have said that they were doing their own chants to drown out other protesters.

Claim: "Barack Obama ""passed laws moving people from welfare to work."""
Evidence Summary: African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. President has a right to toot his own horns during good economic times because, heaven knows, they’ll get the blame when things turn sour. Immigration hardliners argued that the Obama administration was too lenient with migrant families and children, by releasing them from detention and allowing them to live in the United States while their immigration cases were pending. If they expect working-class and minority voters who turned out in great numbers 2018 to turn out again in 2020, candidates and elected officials need to speak directly to people's daily struggles.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney is wrong to claim that spending under Obama has accelerated at a pace without precedent in recent history, because its actually risen slower than at any time in nearly 60 years."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote in the Washington Post that President Donald Trump has not risen to the mantle of the office. Despite the criticism, Romney got a shoutout from departing Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) Romney is 71, has two failed presidential campaigns, has a history of flip-flopping on a wide variety of issues, and yet... no one in political media is saying he needs to be quiet. He could plausibly argue that his economic stimulus and other policies helped drive the recovery over the rest of his term.

Claim: "The amount of debt is on pace to double in five years and triple in 10. The federal debt is now over $100,000 per household."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. national debt is now $22 trillion and projected to soar to $33 trillion by 2028. The debt crisis has longer historical roots, but it’s also been stimulated by recent government policy. To win the anxious middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters, especially on health care and education. The new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters it's O.K. to be mad about being in debt.

Claim: "The minute this proposal for near-beach oil drilling came up, I was against it."
Evidence Summary: Banks, buoyed by the high court decision, believes its mine can go ahead. It promises 100 much-needed jobs and restoration of the landscape. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. Despite activist hysteria, oceanic drilling rigs have never been safer. Since the 2010 Deepwater Horizon incident, the oil and natural gas industry has updated or implemented more than 100 regulations governing offshore exploration and production.

Claim: "The Richardson-Denish administration gave 50,000 drivers licenses to illegal immigrants in New Mexico."
Evidence Summary: NBC reported Monday that according to statistics from the U.S. Department of Customs and Border Protection only six immigrants on a terror watchlist have been detained in six months at the Mexican border. Trump tried to capture the gravity of the situation by citing a raft of statistics and highlighting individual cases where vicious crimes were committed by illegal immigrants. In Vermont, migrant dairy farmworkers were targeted for deportation after they obtained drivers licenses, according to a federal lawsuit filed by Migrant Justice. In one email, a state worker passed along "south of the border names" to ICE.

Claim: "If youre a Mexican, you get sent back. ... But if youre from a noncontiguous country like the Central American countries then you can stay in the United States."
Evidence Summary: Some urged the migrants not to be blindly optimistic. “Mexico is just like your country,” said Belem Gonzales. � “We do not want caravans of (emojis of rats). Fight conditions in your own country.” “Let’s see if whacko [Honduran President] Labrador mobilizes the Marines and keeps these idiots from coming to Mexico. Give them enough to eat, at least," said Juan Palomina.

Claim: "Says the United States actually exports more gasoline, diesel and other fuels than it imported in 2011 for the first time since, I think, 1949."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. increased its carbon dioxide emissions in 2018, and a large part of the reason was one normally cited as a bonus — substantial economic growth. A booming American economy meant increased industrial production, more truck and air travel and more offices and other workplaces to heat. This created the second-largest annual increase in the key greenhouse gas emissions in more than two decades, according to new estimates from the Rhodium Group. The difference is made up with imports, almost all of which come from the United States, and the president has pledged to cut imports once domestic production grows.

Claim: Rhode Island is the only state where officers at state-supported [colleges] carry out their duties unarmed.
Evidence Summary: Under a law passed after the Stoneman Douglas shooting, districts can elect to arm non-classroom employees. The only teachers allowed to arm themselves are current or former police officers, active military members or JOTC instructors. The state teachers union and PTA oppose the proposal to arm teachers. They argue that adding more armed people will make campuses more dangerous and say teachers should not also be acting as armed guards. It's no coincidence that Massachusetts boasts the lowest gun-death rate in the nation at 3.4 per 100,000.

Claim: "It was allowed, referring to her email practices."
Evidence Summary: "She did, but how many apologies can you make for bad judgment?" Democrats continue to criticize her. "I am satisfied that I conducted myself appropriately and in line with all the rules," she says. If there is a parliamentary inquiry, she says, she will make all appropriate information available. "It is there for anyone to see," she adds of the evidence against her in the case. 'I think we need to go back and have another look at it, and have a chat with them,' she says of Democrats.

Claim: "Our veterans, in many cases, are being treated worse than illegal immigrants."
Evidence Summary: The cause of deported veterans has yet to be part of the central agendas of nationally recognized veterans groups. There are efforts to pull in the support of the politically influential Veterans of Foreign Wars, American Legion, Disabled American Veterans and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. At the local and state level, groups are trying to build support to push for reform of the 1996 law that made legal residents deportable after committing certain crimes, including drug possession crimes. Several bills have been filed in Congress addressing deported vets.

Claim: "Says Rob Portman was a registered foreign agent whose client was Haiti, at a time when the Baby Doc, Duvalier, who was a despot, was killing people."
Evidence Summary: Cuba has a respected health service and generates major export earnings by sending more than 50,000 health workers to more than 60 countries. The Cuban doctors in Brazil were faced with a dire choice: apply for refugee status there and leave their families behind, or remain in what some of them called slavery. “It is outrageous, though not surprising, that the Cuban dictatorship continues to manipulate and traffic physicians in order to enrich itself,” Republican Marco Rubio said in a statement. Guatemala’s President Jimmy Morales is facing international condemnation after announcing the expulsion of a United Nations-backed anti-corruption mission.

Claim: "In 2010, the non-partisan Government Accountability Office found that only 6.5 percent of the U.S.-Mexico border was under full control of the Border Patrol."
Evidence Summary: Border Patrol made 396,579 arrests on the Mexican border in the 2018 fiscal year, up 30 percent from a 46-year low during the same period a year earlier. The number of border arrests is actually one-quarter of what it was in 2000, dropping from 1.6 million then to 400,000 in 2018. Despite Trump's portrayal of Mexico as a teeming portal for terrorists, the State Department issued a report in September finding "no credible evidence indicating that international terrorist groups have established bases in Mexico"

Claim: "Demand for transportation choice is on the rise, with 14 percent more Ohioans riding passenger trains over the past year."
Evidence Summary: On I-55, Pace express service ridership has risen from 400 riders every day in 2011 to 3,000 now. Pace also has seen strong growth on its I-90 routes. Donahue says expansion of the agency’s express routes would require state lawmakers to enact a capital spending bill, something Springfield hasn’t done in 10 years. The agency would be better off seeing how much expansion can be achieved through other means, such as service cutbacks where ridership is next to nil.

Claim: One of the most recent polls said 75 percent of the American people have said either don't do anything or start over (on health care reform).
Evidence Summary: Public-opinion polls are one indicator of issues on which most people find consensus. Americans want to see legislation passed by both parties so it can stand the test of time. Just 31 percent overall said they want their elected officials to stick to their positions no matter what. Strong Republicans (50 percent), African-Americans (51 percent), Trump supporters (53 percent), Latinos (55 percent) and Gen Xers (56 percent) are among the least likely to say they want officials to compromise. Neither party is making a very good impression, either.

Claim: "Barack Obama's network of small donors constitutes a ""parallel public financing system."""
Evidence Summary: The bill creates a public financing system for House elections that provides $6 in public funds for every $1 in funds raised from donations up to $200. The bill also creates a small-donor matching system for presidential elections. A separate bill covering Senate elections will be introduced by Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) The idea is to create an alternative to the funding from big donors and political action committees that currently dominates politics by making it feasible for more candidates to run on small donors alone.

Claim: "In Cranston, it costs $5,000 to $6,000 to send out community notifications on just one Level 3 sex offender."
Evidence Summary: In 43 states, defendants are charged for public defender-related fees. In most states, fines and fees are even assessed against youth for minor infractions. New leaders recognize the unfairness and inherent conflicts in relying on penalizing poor people to fund the justice system and are working with their communities on reform. The number of prisoners serving immediate custodial sentences for sex offences is at its highest level in 17 years. In Durham County, North Carolina, newly elected District Attorney Satana Deberry, who begins her term this month, advocated for a misdemeanor citation system.

Claim: "While the countrys economy was battered, nine states with no income tax actually grew jobs from 2001 to 2010."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "The United States is not building the aircraft, the long-range bombers, the additional aircraft carriers, the nuclear submarines."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Adam Smith of Washington, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, seems intent on killing several main elements of the Pentagon’s modernization plan. Smith: “Our defence capabilities are purely defensive. The United States has been very transparent in the development of its missile defence capabilities, about what they are postured to defend against.” The Pentagon review acknowledges that the Russian and Chinese arsenals are far too large and sophisticated to be countered by missile defence. “We will terminate any missile launches from hostile powers … regardless of missile type or geographic origin,” Trump said.

Claim: "Every year we spend roughly $500 billion on tax compliance. That is roughly the budget of our entire military, entirely wasted on tax compliance."
Evidence Summary: President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes.” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and Mr. Bush wasn’t re-elected. The budget deficit could be $985 billion. I want to give Congress $535 million in bonuses to balance the budget. We might save $984.4 billion. And I don't care where they get the money, because messing with the tax rates is nothing but social engineering.

Claim: "They say teachers only make on averagein New Jersey 60,000 dollars a year.They only work 180 days."
Evidence Summary: By more than 2-1, 66 percent to 31 percent, teachers say they aren't paid fairly. In a national USA TODAY/Ipsos Poll last September, Americans by a similar 59 percent to 34 percent said teachers weren't paid what they're worth. "I don't know of another profession where the employees bring materials into the workplace, and they pay for it out of their own pocket," Rooker said. Nearly four in 10 teachers said they had worked a second job over the past year to make ends meet.

Claim: "I can put 10,000 people to work. Electricians, plumbers, sheet metal workers -- by retrofitting all of the state buildings for energy independence or efficiency."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he said. "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes," he added. "Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. I'm just hoping this government opens up," the mayor said. “We can do that by greening the grid with investments in renewable energy and a wage and skills guarantee for any displaced worker.”

Claim: "Mitt Romneys and Bain Capitals profits from KB Toys, which later went out of business, were described by the Boston Herald as disgusting."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney spent the bulk of his business career at a firm called Bain Capital. Bain Capital all but invented what is now a familiar business strategy: Take over an existing company for a short period of time, cut costs by firing employees, run up the debt, extract the wealth, and move on. Romney became fantastically rich doing this. Meanwhile, a remarkable number of the companies are now bankrupt or extinct. That is a record to be proud of, but you would never have known that from Romney’s presidential campaign.

Claim: "In exchange for five minutes with Bill Clinton, the government of Qatar was going to give $1 million to the Clinton Foundation."
Evidence Summary: Rudy Giuliani says he is "100 percent certain" the president never directed his former longtime lawyer Michael Cohen to lie in congressional testimony about a proposed construction project in Moscow. Giuliani did leave the door open to the possibility that the two men discussed Cohen's testimony. A disputed BuzzFeed story claimed Cohen told special counsel Robert Mueller that the president personally instructed him to lie to congressional investigators. The report also alleged that Cohen was directed to give a false impression that the project had ended before it actually did.

Claim: "She (Kagan) took money from Goldman Sachs just like her boss, Obama."
Evidence Summary: California Sen. Kamala Harris negotiated a massive mortgage settlement during the housing crisis. As California’s attorney general, Harris secured a massive settlement with big banks for her state in 2012. Out of the $25 billion deal she helped negotiate with other state attorney generals, California homeowners received nearly $20 billion in mortgage relief and assistance for people who had their homes foreclosed from Wells Fargo, Bank of America and JP Morgan Chase. She declined to charge Steven Mnuchin for allegedly violating state foreclosure laws when he ran OneWest bank.

Claim: "Barack Obama wants to ""unilaterally disarm our nation."""
Evidence Summary: Obama's remarks do not support Trump's proposal for a border wall, which the former president has criticized. Instead, Obama was asking Congress to approve an emergency appropriation to deal with the surge. And you saw what happened when a president shuts people out. He has a goal in mind of reducing our presence. And President Obama never would do that.Trump says that if the courts say Obama had the right to do DACA unilaterally, he can do whatever he wants on lots of other stuff. He adds: "Can you imagine me having this power?"

Claim: "When asked about equal pay for women, (Rubios) quote was that it was a waste of time."
Evidence Summary: 7th-grade students: Pay women the same as men for the same work. Women's salaries are 23 percent less than men's salaries, or 77 percent of what men get paid. Women of color get paid even less, when compared to all men, they say. "Capitalism will not survive unless its leaders and advocates get a sense of what they’ve lost, a set of basic moral values and a dedication to the common good of all our citizens," they write.

Claim: Atlanta has issued an increasing number of citations - and collected an increasing amount of revenue - since Mayor Kasim Reed took office in 2010.
Evidence Summary: Joel Fitzgerald is vying to become Baltimore's fourth police commissioner in the span of roughly a year. A report surfaced alleging he overstated some of his accomplishments in Fort Worth, Texas. The NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund issued a statement calling for the city to withdraw Fitzgerald's nomination. L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti says the city's getting more volunteers around homeless causes than ever before. The city is housing more people than ever, but it's not enough to keep up with all the people falling into homelessness.

Claim: Says he was known as Veto Corleone for cutting spending as Florida governor.
Evidence Summary: Until the amendment, Florida's constitution automatically barred felons from being able to vote after leaving prison. University of Florida professor says it may take time for the effects of the change to become evident. "Most of us are just sick and tired of all that drama," says former Florida Gov. George H.W. Bush. "Washington is not just our nation's capital, it's also the capital of gridlock and dysfunction," says Florida Rep. Ron DeSantis, a Democrat.

Claim: "More than any Republican governor in the 2014 elections, I took a higher percentage of the Republican voteand yet I also carried independents by 12 points."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Gov. Rauner pointed to some small-bore achievements during his farewell appearance Thursday before the Tribune Editorial Board. But he didn't come close to backing up his parting boast, “I’ll put our track record of accomplishment up against any governor in the U.S. in the last four years.” Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor.

Claim: "Under New York Mayor Bill de Blasio, homicides are up by 20 percent, and subway delays have soared 45 percent."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump has often singled out Chicago's high homicide rate. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has accused Trump of oversimplifying the problem and potential solutions. While homicide numbers dropped in many districts in Chicago in 2018, they went up in several neighborhoods on the city’s South and West Sides. The mayor has learned that the road to becoming a national progressive leader can be bumpy. His efforts to create a national debate around income inequality for the 2016 presidential election failed. Just a few years later, he is willing to try again.

Claim: "Says U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith supported the $700 billion Wall Street bailout in 2008, ""but now he is standing in the way of reforms that would assure these bailouts would never happen again."
Evidence Summary: Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters is the new chairwoman of the House Financial Services Committee. The California lawmaker promised to protect working Americans from big banks. Waters, a frequent and vocal critic of President Trump and his administration, now has some in the financial industry on edge. “I don’t want to be the next financial institution to mess up,” Isaac Boltansky, a Washington policy analyst for the investment firm Compass Point Research & Trading, told The Washington Post. The banking industry has argued that the government overreacted to the crisis and imposed overly restrictive rules.

Claim: "Says an array of statistics show that conditions in some parts of Baltimore rival that of the West Bank in Palestine, North Korea, and distressed cities in Nigeria, India, China and South Africa."
Evidence Summary: The crises spawned by the spatial, economic and social isolation of African Americans are still generating consequences. Over the last two decades, tens of thousands of units of public housing have been destroyed, often on the lie that they would be replaced. The result is that poor and working-class black renters remain isolated in economically marginal neighborhoods. These are the food and job deserts where families are stranded by inadequate public transit systems and rising fuel costs. While we may understand many of the roots of residential segregation, its persistence has created the perception that it is an unchanging, even permanent, fact of American life.

Claim: "The House passed a pay-as-you-go rule that said, ""If you wanted to have an investment, an entitlement, etc., you had to pay for it."""
Evidence Summary: The House of Representatives easily enacted a set of rules on Thursday that included “pay-go’ budget limits loathed by some progressive members of Congress and outside activists. The rule would require Congress to offset any increased spending with equal cuts or revenue increases elsewhere. It could potentially block votes on ambitious policy proposals like Medicare for All unless it’s completely paid for. Progressive congressional leaders have also noted that a change in House rules alone would not clear the path for deficit-increasing legislation to become law.

Claim: "All the really great programs in American history, Social Security, was done without Republicans. Medicare was done without Republican support until the last vote where they realized they had to get on board."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all” these days. For the first time in roughly a decade, Democrats rather than Republicans are the ones dreaming and talking about passing major new health care legislation.

Claim: "Hurricane Sandy, the most destructive Atlantic storm ever."
Evidence Summary: Experts say the devastating and unusually powerful hurricanes that have struck East Coast over the past decade have done more than any politician could to raise awareness. Scientists for years have been warning that ocean levels are rising, and that storms will become more violent. “This is an administration that thinks nothing of the future,” says David Titley, a retired naval officer who formerly served as chief operating officer of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The past few years have produced three of the five costliest hurricanes to hit the United States on record.

Claim: "The Hispanic population in Gwinnett and Henry counties has increased by 153 percent and 339 percent, respectively, since 2000 while Republican presidential candidates are getting a smaller percentage of the vote in those counties."
Evidence Summary: Democrats started organizing Latino voters too late, didn’t tailor their message for an increasingly diverse community and ultimately took Latino support for granted, a Florida pollster told Democrats. ‘You just need to start now,’ the pollster, Eduardo Gamarra, told about 50 members of the Democratic Hispanic Caucus of Broward County. “If we want ethnic minority voters to support Republicans, we have to engage them and show our sincerity,” the report stated.

Claim: "Says Gov. Scott Walker raises the pay of inmates, but we dont raise the pay of staff in our correctional institutions."
Evidence Summary: The federal government shutdown is heading into its third week. A federal prison employee served a steak supper to convicted murderers, gang members and terrorists. Many of the federal prison system's nearly 39,000 staffers are among the most modestly paid in the federal system, with some entry-level officers earning about $38,000 per year. With no compromise in sight, Eric Young, president of the national prison workers union, said Friday that he was warning members to prepare for perhaps a month without a paycheck.

Claim: "Says Trump shirts are made in Bangladesh, Trump suits in Mexico, Trump Vodka in the Netherlands, Trump crystal barware in Slovenia and his cufflinks and ties in China."
Evidence Summary: Reporters have noticed another Trump trait: his tendency to make something up, then embellish his own lie each time he repeats it. Trump had gone from announcing that United States Steel Corp was opening six new plants due to his policies. That was a lie, as was his later claim that US Steel was opening seven plants. In 2017, Smirnoff vodka erected billboards that read: "Made in America. But we'd be happy to talk about our ties to Russia under oath"

Claim: "Says you can buy four light bulbs for $1.99 at Walmart, while a single compact fluorescent lamp (CFL) costs $10 a pop."
Evidence Summary: Officials have now backed a scheme to allow parish councils to pay for lights to be re-instated overnight. Under the scheme, parish councils, or equivalent, would have to pay £300 per light, or £150 per light if within existing council works. The amount has been calculated to cover the cost of both converting lights to LED, and, if already converted, cost of energy required to run them for the next 20 years, scrutiny committee members said. Chairman Mike Brookes said: "Those costs are ours and so those are the charges we have to make to be fair to everybody else who keeps their part-night lighting as it is"

Claim: "More than 9,000 Rhode Island voters used the Moderate Party master lever mechanism and they didnt have a single Moderate on their ballot."
Evidence Summary: Petition gatherers collected sufficient signatures to place three proposals on the statewide ballot. All three of those proposals were generally opposed by the GOP, meaning they stood virtually no chance of being enacted by Michigan’s Republican-dominated legislature. But each of the proposals proved extraordinarily popular among Michigan voters. In November, all three were approved by overwhelming majorities. In Massachusetts, officials sent 63,246 first-class letters to voters who cast ballots in the September primary in some eight cities to test the accuracy of the voter rolls.

Claim: "Obama says Iran is a 'tiny' country, 'doesn't pose a serious threat.'"
Evidence Summary: No Islamic country is better positioned than Iran to play a leading role in the Middle East. But that potential has been stunted because of Iran’s continued meddling in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Lebanon. The commentariat and the Democrats in exile are aghast, and insist that such bellicosity will only invite belligerence from Iran. But the truth is that when dealing with Iran, threats usually work while blandishments only whet the appetite of the mullahs who run the country.

Claim: "In the 2014 elections, the American people overwhelmingly said we dont want Obamacare and we dont want amnesty."
Evidence Summary: 3 out of 4 Republican respondents identified illegal immigration as the biggest challenge facing the U.S. With the exception of the possibility of impeachment, nothing makes Republicans angrier than illegal immigration. The prolonged success of Donald Trump’s nativist message among Republican voters need to be taken seriously. These figures help explain how Democrats made unprecedented gains on Election Day largely on a platform of activist government. Americans’ support for these proposals and candidates seems at odds with their low levels of trust in government, a gap dubbed the “government-citizen disconnect”

Claim: "Congress has 11 percent approval ratings, yet 96.4 percent of incumbent lawmakers were re-elected in 2014."
Evidence Summary: Only 35 percent in this ABC News/Washington Post poll express confidence in Trump to make the right decisions for the country’s future. Americans are 45 percentage points likelier to disapprove than to approve of the performance by Congress as a whole. They disapprove of congressional Republicans by a 29-point margin, of Trump by a 17- point margin and of congressional Democrats by a 13-pointmargin. 57 percent of Americans say they hold Trump at least partially responsible for the shutdown, an uptick from the 49 to 51 percent who have said the same in previous weeks.

Claim: "Statistics bear out that any time a country, a state, makes more restrictive abortion laws ... fatalities go up and abortions actually increase."
Evidence Summary: In 1972, 39 women in the U.S. died from illegal abortions, and almost as many, 24, died from legal abortions. Today, with the fate of Roe uncertain, a focus on science and medical claims has pushed the two sides of the abortion conflict farther apart. The role of science in the abortion debate also suggests that overturning Roe — or even removing abortion from constitutional law — will do nothing to de-escalate the conflict. In the United States, 6 in 10 Catholic voters say abortion can be a moral choice.

Claim: "Of the approximately 6 million disenfranchised felons in the United States, one-quarter are Floridians."
Evidence Summary: Florida passed a constitutional amendment in November to do away with its lifetime felon voting ban. That change could affect up to 1.4 million people. Iowa, Kentucky and Virginia are the only three states in the country where state constitutions permanently strip people convicted of felonies of their right to vote. Nationally, an estimated 4.7 million people are estimated to be disenfranchised because of a felony conviction. The Sentencing Project also estimated that nearly 1 in every 10 African-Americans in the state were disenfranchised.

Claim: "Obama ""basically threatened to bomb Pakistan."""
Evidence Summary: U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo accused Barack Obama on Thursday of sowing chaos in the Middle East by failing to adequately confront Islamist militants. The comments raised eyebrows in the United States and abroad not the least because Trump himself is being criticized for his ambiguous plan announced last month. “We learned that when America retreats, chaos often follows,” Mr. Pompeo said in a speech in Cairo. Pakistan must be confronted to prevent the Afghan-Pakistan region from becoming a haven for nuclear-armed terrorists.

Claim: The Governor did not consult members of his own party before he released his [transportation] plan.
Evidence Summary: New York City Mayor Rahm Emanuel says the city needs a new way to communicate with the rest of the U.S. The city is in the middle of a major overhaul of its transportation system. The mayor says it's time for a change in the way the city is run, not just for the sake of it, but for the good of the city and the nation. The City Council is expected to vote on a new transportation plan in the next few weeks. It's not clear when the new plan will be announced.

Claim: "Ed Gillespies 2006 book promoted an individual health care mandate, and recommends that it be enforced by the IRS through the income tax code."
Evidence Summary: Taxpayers will be confronting a welter of changes made by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. People without health insurance may be surprised to learn they are still on the hook when it comes to Obamacare’s so-called individual mandate. Another poll released this week showed how Americans feel about proposals to expand government-run health programs. While a majority (56%) supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK's NHS), large majorities on both sides supported “buy-ins” to existing government- run health plans.

Claim: American homeownership rate in Q2 2016 was 62.9% - lowest rate in 51yrs.
Evidence Summary: Interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages averaged 4.74 percent for a second week. The decline in rates could help boost home sales, which stumbled last year as higher borrowing costs eroded affordability. Sales tumbled 3.1 percent last year to 5.34 million, the fewest since 2015, the National Association of Realtors reported Tuesday. The strong economy offered little support to would-be buyers because mortgage rates climbed for much of last year, making purchases costlier.

Claim: "Romneys Medicare plan was estimated to cost the average senior about $6,000 a year."
Evidence Summary: "Medicare for All" is estimated to cost tens of trillions of dollars over a decade. Some polls show support for Medicare-for-all, but when those polled are informed of the doubling of taxes required to fund such a scheme, support collapses. "Finding new revenue is exactly where Democrats should be," Stevenson explained. But a big top-rate hike "would not be the first thing I would do, it would be the last thing," he said."We recognized that health care is not just in theory a right. It’s in practice a right," de Blasio said.

Claim: "If we had the same staffing ratio (of officers to residents) as Seattle, wed have 300 more officers in our department."
Evidence Summary: Candidates were asked whether they backed the pending federal consent decree to reform the Chicago Police Department. Former Chicago Public Schools CEO Paul Vallas said 80 percent of the consent decree was “common sense,” such as more training and better equipment for officers. He also slammed Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s administration for allowing the Police Department to shrink during his tenure. “Do not underestimate to the degree this Police Department has been degraded, not filling close to 2,000 vacancies, allowing the detective division to be gutted almost in half,’ he said.

Claim: "When career politician Daniel Webster became speaker of the House, he wasted $32,000 of our money on a spiral staircase for his office."
Evidence Summary: Even supporters of Paul Ryan, happy about the $5 billion package to fund the wall and avoid the shutdown, note that he did nothing to solve this crisis in his final days as speaker. In Ryan’s final official speech, he expressed regret for a host of policy goals he leaves unfinished, ranging from tackling the debt to immigration reform. Rayburn, Albert and Tip O’Neill formed the ideal of the modern speakership. They shaped policy, worked with presidents from either party, molded their successors and tried to move the wheel forward.

Claim: "Says the difference between her and Barack Obama is ""about 35 years of experience."""
Evidence Summary: Biden touted his relationship with former President Barack Obama in a meeting with black voters in New York and assured them that he is close friends with Obama. ‘He's my buddy,’ Biden said at a breakfast hosted by Rev. Al Sharpton and the National Action Network. Biden made no specific reference to 2020, although he has hinted he'll be a candidate in the coming months. One key difference: Ms. Pelosi knows how the legislative process works. She has voted against President Trump’s agenda more than any other senator.

Claim: "The United States is the only major country on earth that doesnt guarantee health care to all people as a right, not a privilege."
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic. In Canada, medical care is publicly funded and universally provided through the country's Provincial Ministry of Health.

Claim: "The U.S. gives foreign aid to Cuba and Venezuela, even though those countries are our enemies."
Evidence Summary: Cuba expressed its support, with the state newspaper Granma saying that by recognising Guaido as interim president, Trump “is directing a coup d’état” Cuba is hugely dependent on Venezuelan petroleum paid for with doctors. The UN chief António Guterres on Thursday appealed for dialogue in Venezuela to avoid the political crisis spiralling out of control. According to Cuba, the U.S. embargo has cost the island more than $800 billion since it was was implemented in 1962.

Claim: "if the Agreement goes into effect, the millions of Mexican citizens who will become eligible for Social Security benefits may have a far stronger claim to benefits and protection against cuts than U.S. citizens!"
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump said he's willing to give 'amnesty' in a 'much bigger deal' The president announced a plan to extend temporary immigration protections in exchange for $5.7 billion in border wall funding. The proposal is similar to a compromise put forward by Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., that would include three year work permits for DACA recipients and extension of legal status for TPS holders. The Senate will vote on the deal this week, but Democrats have already expressed opposition due to the temporary nature.

Claim: "Earlier this year, [John DePetro] was accused of sexually assaulting a female co-worker."
Evidence Summary: Two women claim they were sexually assaulted in the 1990s. The women have not been identified. The allegations were made in a report to the New Jersey State Legislature. The report was released after months of delays, the women's attorney said. The woman's identity has not been released. The investigation is ongoing, the woman's lawyer said. For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch, or see www.samaritans.org for details.

Claim: "Photo of ""tea party"" protests shows crowd sprawling from Capitol to Washington Monument"
Evidence Summary: The third Women's March returned to Washington on Saturday with an enduring message of anger and defiance aimed directly at President Donald Trump's White House. An estimated 100,000 protesters packed several blocks around Freedom Plaza, just east of the White House, holding a daylong rally. The march itself took about an hour and only moved about four blocks west along Pennsylvania Avenue past the Trump International Hotel before looping back to Freedom Plaza. Organizers submitted a permit application estimating up to 500,000 participants even though it was widely expected that the turnout would be smaller.

Claim: "There are 278 Republicans in Congress. (With Eric Cantors defeat), they are now all Christian and all white except for one black senator, who was appointed."
Evidence Summary: More than 99 percent of the Republican members identify as Christian, as opposed to 78 percent of Democrats. In both parties, Christians are overrepresented, given that just 71 percent of all U.S. adults describe themselves as Christians. Just one person – Sen. Kyrsten Sinema, D-Ariz., who was recently elected to the Senate – says she is religiously unaffiliated, making the share of ‘nones’ in Congress 0.2%.“The survey underscores a longstanding lack of political representation among the growing ranks of Americans who say they don’t believe in God, are questioning the existence of a higher power, or simply don't subscribe to traditional organized religion"

Claim: "If the Stamp Farm wind turbine is built, the health risk of flicker impact created by shadows of blades of turbines poses real and significant health risks, particularly seizures."
Evidence Summary: The government has increased Victoria’s renewable energy target to 50% by 2030. “This project will create hundreds of local jobs, reduce greenhouse emissions and generate enough electricity to power more than 400,000 homes,” the acting planning minister Lily D’ambrosio said. The bill comes nearly two weeks after an equipment malfunction at a Consolidated Edison substation released an electric arc flash that illuminated the city sky with an eerie neon blue. The incident raised new concerns about the risks of burning fossil fuels for electricity in a residential neighborhood.

Claim: "According to the most recent report, Wisconsins high school graduation rates are also up again -- to third best in the country."
Evidence Summary: The University of Wisconsin-Madison has the highest rate of binge-drinking in the U.S. The state is among the top 15 for drunken-driving arrests, according to Mothers Against Drunk Drivers. More students are getting AP Diplomas than in any other school in the country. The U.W. is the only school in Wisconsin that doesn't have a full-time child care center. The school also has one of the lowest graduation rates in the nation, at 20.5%.

Claim: "In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy."
Evidence Summary: The systemic abuses endured by Zaghari-Ratcliffe confirm all the worst prejudices and stereotypes about Iran peddled by enemies in the Arab Gulf states, Israel and Washington. They invite ostracism and reciprocal bigotry. They open the way to greater violence. The supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, though old, ailing and underqualified, still casts a reactionary shadow over the regime’s external dealings. Every time the EU defends the 2015 nuclear pact against American opposition, the more once supportive western politicians dismayed by regime abuses will question the strategy.

Claim: "On immigration reform, Marco Rubio all along has been saying, We have to have border security first and then he gets on Spanish TV, he ends up saying, No, no. That will never get in the way."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney: "We're going to implement common-sense border security that the American people want" Jimmy Kimmel: “If you really want to make up a fake border crisis, then make it a scary border crisis.” Stephen Colbert: "So half the criminals who are trying to cross the border are only criminals for trying toCross the border’ Colbert: ‘As in, they said they caught 17,000 [people] but it was more like 22’

Claim: "Dem-controlled Ohio House voted to change the process, to create objective criteria, to modify the Constitution ... to take politics out of the efforts to draw legislative boundaries."
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court last considered partisan gerrymandering last March. In June, the justices punted rather than handing down a definitive ruling. North Carolina Democrats and Maryland Republicans want the court to reconsider federal district court decisions striking down congressional district maps as unconstitutional. The North Carolina map, drawn by the Republican majority in the state legislature, assured the GOP of winning 10 out of 13 seats in Congress in November despite a relatively close statewide vote between Republicans and Democrats. It's a pattern that was repeated elsewhere, including in Ohio and Wisconsin.

Claim: "Over the last few years, weve put more people back to work than all the other advanced economies combined."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many of thosePeople agree 100 percent with what I’m doing," he adds. "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to." "We’ve made a lot of progress. People understand exactly what’s going on," Obama says.

Claim: "Obama ""voted against critical resources: no to individual body armor, no to helicopters, no to ammunition, no to aircraft."""
Evidence Summary: Trump's tweet is deceptive, linking to a video clip that shows Obama, as president, discussing "an actual humanitarian crisis on the border" Obama's remarks do not support Trump's proposal for a border wall, which the former president has criticized. Instead, Obama was asking Congress to approve an emergency appropriation to deal with the surge. "One sophomoric response does not deserve another," tweeted Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham. "I think the president should not do it. I think it might be a bad precedent," Sen. Chuck Grassley said.

Claim: "Under Tom Barretts leadership, violent crime in Milwaukee has decreased by over 20% -- to its lowest levels in more than 20 years."
Evidence Summary: The department also recorded declines in shootings, robberies, burglaries, car thefts and car-jackings in 2018. President Donald Trump has often singled out Chicago's high homicide rate, tweeting in 2017: "If Chicago doesn't fix the horrible 'carnage' ... I will send in the Feds!" Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has accused Trump of oversimplifying the problem and potential solutions. While homicide numbers dropped in many districts in Chicago in 2018, they went up in several neighborhoods on the city's South and West Sides.

Claim: "Florida has the most concealed weapon permits in the nation, nearly double that of the second state, which is Texas."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik’s commentary (“Concealed carry doesn't guarantee our safety; it puts us at greater risk,” Jan. 17) distorted a few facts. While it is true firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, almost 24,000, or 60 percent, were suicides. It is extremely rare for a legal gun owner to use a gun successfully in self-defense. Right-to-carry laws also normalize the practice of carrying guns, making it harder for the police to know who is and who is not allowed to possess guns in public.

Claim: "Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had 52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation and revenues were at an all-time high in 2007."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The US has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended, so it’s overdue for a stumble.

Claim: "Says that compared to direct sales by manufacturers, consumers save avg of $500 per car sold through franchised dealer model."
Evidence Summary: U.S. auto sales may have enjoyed a surprising, albeit slight uptick in 2018, according to analyst forecasts. Edmunds.com estimated full-year sales of 17.3 million vehicles, while Cox Automotive projected a "modest uptick" to 17.2 million in 2017. Americans keep buying ever-pricier vehicles thanks to their deepening love affair with SUVs and pickup trucks that benefit when gasoline prices are low. A study from a nonprofit consumer group and a lawsuit in federal court against TrueCar suggest that shoppers as well as dealers say they have been let down by TrueCar’s service.

Claim: "Prior to Obamacare here in Wisconsin, 95 percent of Wisconsinites were covered by insurance. After Obamacare, 95 percent of Wisconsinites were covered by insurance. It hasnt had an impact."
Evidence Summary: Gallup estimates that the uninsured rate for adults increased by 1.3 percentage points in the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. The uninsured rate peaked at 18 percent in Gallup’s survey during 2014, but in the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent. At its peak, just after Obamacare was passed but before it went into effect, nearly one-in-five Americans lacked health insurance.

Claim: "Secretary Clinton changes her position on (gun issues) every election year, it seems, having one position in 2000 and then campaigning against President Obama and saying we dont need federal standards."
Evidence Summary: Then a congresswoman, Gillibrand had an A-rating from the National Rifle Association. She co-sponsored bills to roll back restrictions on firearms in the District of Columbia and to limit disclosure of gun trace information by law enforcement. Now, she stands firmly with other liberals and gun safety advocates on the topic. “I proudly have an ‘F’ rating with the NRA," she told voters in Iowa over the weekend. She told CBS's "60 Minutes" last year that she was "wrong" about her previous stances on gun control and was "embarrassed" by them.

Claim: "Building and running the Atlanta Streetcar is projected to create 1,399 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The services sector was particularly strong with gains of 66,000 in the professional and business sector. Construction added 38,000 jobs after not adding any in November. And manufacturers added 32,000 despite the Trump administration’s trade fight with China. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "Wisconsin is one of the bluest states, but under Scott Walker its unemployment rate is around 3.5%."
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide.

Claim: Residential property taxes [in Providence] are up nearly 27 percent under Mayor Taveras.
Evidence Summary: Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has proposed an increase of 30 cents per gallon to one of the nation’s highest gas taxes. State Reps. Allen Skillicorn, R-East Dundee, and Jeanne Ives hosted a rally Jan. 7 to oppose increasing the state motor fuel tax. “The worst-kept secret in Springfield is a rumored massive gasoline and diesel tax hike. Just when gas prices are finally falling, and little more than a year after income taxes were hiked 32 percent, greedy politicians seem all too willing to take more of our hard-earned money.

Claim: "Assault weapons and handguns are allowed in the state Capitol while bullhorns, trumpets, helium balloons and flags on poles are banned."
Evidence Summary: Many new laws around the country took effect at the beginning of 2019. Among the state and local laws now in place: Washington state has banned people under 21 from buying semi-automatic assault rifles. It appears quite likely that the new conservative majority will, for the very first time, extend the Second Amendment beyond the front door and out into the streets. The case at hand, New York State Rifle & Pistol Association v. New York, is an ideal vehicle for gun-rights activists. The goal is to prohibit the government from barring “concealed carry’ and “open carry” of firearms.

Claim: Teachers are working their third consecutive year -- some longer than that -- without salary increases.
Evidence Summary: The March 15 stoppage is expected to shut schools and universities. It follows similar walkouts by primary school teachers in October and December 2017. Teachers are calling for an increase of 4 billion euros ($4.6 billion) to the government’s annual 30-billion-euro education budget. For wage rises, the unions are seeking 1.1 billion euros this year, increasing to almost 2 billion in 2022. Primary and secondary school teachers currently earn 2,500-4,000 euros per month before taxes.

Claim: "Expanding Medicaid would require borrowing more money, drastically expanding our deficit."
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration is quietly devising a plan bypassing Congress to give block grants to states for Medicaid. Instead of the traditional open-ended entitlement, states would get spending limits, along with more flexibility to run the low-income health program. Republicans have sought to rein in Medicaid spending, especially as enrollment swelled under Obamacare’s expansion of the program to millions of low- Income adults in recent years. The administration wants to let states use waivers to reshape their Medicaid programs, but the effort could face legal challenges in the courts.

Claim: "After (Jeb) Bushs two terms in office, Floridas graduation rate was dead last and remains near the bottom."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education. Education is supposed to be a ladder to prosperity, but in the decades-long push to open college doors wide, an unintended casualty has been the college dropout. The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960, with an estimated 20 percent of working adults having some college credits, but no degree. The U.S. Department of Education defines “graduation rates” as the percentage of first-time, full-time undergraduates who obtain a bachelor’S degree within six years from the same institution.

Claim: "If we had been on Obamacare and a bureaucrat was trying to tell me when I could get that CAT scan, that would have delayed my treatment."
Evidence Summary: "I'm postponing treatment in hopes that it is just a month and I'm back on the federal plan in February," says Palanker, who has an autoimmune disease that causes nerve damage. Overseeing federal health benefits programs is within the purview of the Office of Personnel Management. But getting information to that data hub to make the kind of changes depends on the individual agencies that employ government workers. The OPM has told government agencies "that they should have [human resources] staff available during the lapse," a spokeswoman says.

Claim: Much more than 50 percentof parents out there are spankers.
Evidence Summary: Most things in American life are cheaper than they were 50 years ago, except for the things that middle-class families need most. These are all much more expensive: Health care, daycare, college tuition, housing in places with good public schools. Buying these things now requires two incomes, rather than one. That puts a strain on families in which both parents work. It absolutely crushes single-parent households. Most people believe in the idea of physical discipline, but they have to forgo using it in order to be foster parents.

Claim: Wisconsin is one of the highest taxed states in the nation.
Evidence Summary: One in four Wisconsin respondents reported binge-drinking at least once in the past month. Wisconsin saw a 35 percent increase in fatal opioid overdoses between 2015 and 2016. Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy, such as building and maintaining roads so everyone can get to their daily jobs. The less fortunate should be assisted through social service programs until they can get on their own feet and become independent. The tax rates in Illinois have become excessive, a board member says.

Claim: "Says opponent Bill Flores helped run a company that laid off over 3,000 workers and paid off executives with millions."
Evidence Summary: The $25,000 donation was made to a fund set up to support a candidate's campaign. The money was never intended to go to the candidate. The candidate's name was removed from the donation. The campaign says the decision was made on behalf of the candidate, not the campaign. It says it will appeal the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, which is hearing the case. The case is expected to be heard by the end of the year.

Claim: "Texas still owns all of its public lands. If the federal govt wants to create a park, they must ask permission!"
Evidence Summary: In a 1953 Harper's essay, “Let’s Close the National Parks,” American historian Bernard DeVoto argued that the public shouldn’t be allowed in the parks until Congress could adequately restore parks after wartime neglect and underfunding. In Joshua Tree National Park, several of the park's namesake trees have been vandalized. In response to numerous reports of visitors leaving behind trash and befouled bathrooms at various parks across the country, the National Park Service announced over the weekend that it would use entrance, camping, parking and other fees to fill the funding vacuum.

Claim: "Says Tammy Baldwin supports a law in which government will take over your decisions on medicine, on doctors and on hospitals."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi: Democrats' mandate is to lower health care costs and prescription drug prices and protect people with pre-existing medical conditions. Underwood made health care a central part of her campaign, and impressed audiences and interviewers with her grasp of the issues. New House Budget Committee Chairman John Yarmuth implicitly sketched out the political game plan: enact socialized medicine before patients and taxpayers understand what they’ll be losing. The popularity of Medicare for all soars when people hear it would guarantee health insurance as a right. But it becomes a political loser if people think it would lead to treatment delays.

Claim: "Says if we do nothing and continue to let Obamacare siphon off that $700 billion dollars off the top of it, Medicare goes away in less than 10 years -- certain accounts of it -- and it just falls apart at the seams."
Evidence Summary: The VA is preparing to shift billions of dollars from government-run hospitals to private health care providers. A new survey shows broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care, including letting some people buy into Medicare or Medicaid. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government- run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans.

Claim: "Says Sen. John McCain spent the July 4 weekend in Islamabad, Pakistan, selling F-16s and advanced weapons to the folks who harbored Osama bin Laden."
Evidence Summary: U.S. peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad arrived in Islamabad on Thursday in effort to find a peaceful end to the conflict in Afghanistan. Local media reports suggested that efforts were underway to invite the Taliban for talks with a U.S.-led delegation in Pakistan. A McCain staffer and an institution within the institution bids farewell to the Senate, by WaPo’s Paul Kane: “They don’t make staffers like Joe Donoghue anymore.”

Claim: "John Cornyn has voted to increase the debt, raise taxes, bail out Wall Street banks and fund Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: North Carolina House race marred by fraud may not be resolved until the fall. ‘I’m running because I think Kansas wants a conservative fighter in the United States Senate,’ LaTurner said. “[My departure will last] until and unless the commonwealth is ready for my views on things, and that’s not right now, clearly.” – Failed 2018 Virginia Senate candidate Corey Stewart announcing that he would not seek another term as chairman of the Board of Supervisors.

Claim: "Says Republican presidential candidate and Gov. John Kasich has spent 177 days out of state and used $350,000 in taxpayer money on his costly campaign."
Evidence Summary: The trip comes as some local Democratic officials have criticized Inslee for not investing in New Hampshire's 2018 gubernatorial race during his tenure as chair of the Democratic Governors Association. It’s time for Republicans in our state capitals and Washington to get in step with the fast-moving parade. Anyone falling behind gets swept up by those guys who follow the horses. John R. Kasich, the governor of Ohio, was a Republican House member from 1983 to 2001. Follow him on Twitter: @JohnKasich.

Claim: "Ever wonder why no one ever came forward from Obamas past, saying they knew him, attended school with him, was his friend, etc.? Not one person has ever come forward from his past."
Evidence Summary: As a candidate, Obama demonstrated both the ability to speak about race, injustice and inequality and the skill to evade it. As president, Obama often chose race-neutral language while pressing for health care, criminal justice and immigration reform. The Obama administration’s failure to prosecute bankers and other elites responsible for economic cataclysm added fuel to the fire of resentment that led so many Americans to the tea party, and ultimately, Trumpism. “I think [black voter] expectations for Obama were somewhat tempered,” Moore said, “until he came out in favor of the gay marriage issue”

Claim: "Barack Obama's plan calls for ""mandates and fines for small businesses."""
Evidence Summary: Democratic Sen. Vin Gopal called for the bill to be voted down over the small business provision. Gopal said owners of coffee shops or ice cream parlors do not typically make large salaries and often struggle in their early years to establish a foothold. House Democrats have proposed a slew of anti-business regulations including tax hikes, job-killing regulations, and a $15 minimum wage. Republican opposition to Democratic efforts is likely, although many GOP lawmakers voiced support for pre-existing condition coverage during their election campaigns.

Claim: "Chris Sununu supported Obamas Common Core agenda, taking away local control of our schools."
Evidence Summary: Some prominent social media users have backtracked their condemnation of the students. President Trump has offered support to the students, accusing the media of smearing the teenagers. The union opposes rescuing kids from chronically failing public schools and opening up school choice for their parents. Public education is central to the county’s continued prosperity. “If we lose the school, we’d lose the town,” says John Tennant, a resident of Roberts County, Kentucky. The CTU never has been a player in trying to restructure the state's school funding formula that punished property-poor communities.

Claim: "Says the Constitution specifically states the Congress shall write legislation for immigration policy, so Barack Obama lacks the authority to defer the deportation of young illegal immigrants."
Evidence Summary: The former president made the remarks in 2005, as part of a bipartisan effort to address illegal immigration. Obama's order shielded up to 5 million immigrants from deportation and bolstered protections for "DREAMers" Republicans blasted Obama for acting unilaterally, and the Supreme Court ultimately struck down the plan in 2016. Trump also falsely said that President Obama "admitted" that "this isn't going to work" in the Obama-era program for Dreamers. He implied that Obama agreed with him that the order exceeded the president's authority.

Claim: "Arizona schools rank 45th in the nation, dead last in funding per student."
Evidence Summary: The state of New York is in need of $7 billion in funding for schools. The state needs to make up for the shortfall in funding by making up for it in other ways. The money would be better spent on health care, education, infrastructure and social services. The funds would also be used to help the poor, particularly those in the poorest areas of the state. The funding would also help the elderly, who are particularly at risk of falling behind in their education because of a lack of resources.

Claim: "Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, ""was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration."""
Evidence Summary: Hasher Jallal Taheb, 21, was arrested Wednesday and charged with a terrorist plot to attack the White House, as well as the Washington Monument and the Lincoln Memorial. Police were tipped off to the plot when the 16-year-old suspect showed classmates at Greece Odyssey Academy in Greece, N.Y. a picture on his phone that he said looked like a potential school shooter. The Muslim community "has come under serious attack by white nationalists, white supremacist groups and militia groups across this country," said the executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations.

Claim: Florida has the second-lowest (campaign) contribution limit in the entire country.
Evidence Summary: According to the criminal complaint, the politician since identified as Preckwinkle kept $5,600 of the donation and did not report the contribution to state election officials. State law requires all political contributions to be reported by candidates. The campaign confirmed the donor was Shoukat Dhanani, the CEO of Tri City Foods, which owns the Burger King franchise in Burke’s ward. On Thursday, the campaign said records from its bank, software company and internal database all showed the entire $10,000 had been returned, but declined to make the records public.

Claim: "As CEO of WWE, Linda McMahon was caught tipping off a ringside physician about a federal investigation into illegally distributing steroids to wrestlers."
Evidence Summary: Stormy Daniels has filed a federal lawsuit against the Ohio police officers who arrested her at a strip club last summer. The charges, three misdemeanor sex offenses for allegedly inappropriately touching a female undercover officer, were dropped within hours. Ex-Theranos CEO Elizabeth Holmes says 'I don't know' 600-plus times in deposition tapes. The New York Times reports that fresh allegations of abuse have emerged, including inadequate privacy for patients while they were naked or being showered. A Phoenix police spokesman said that "the matter is currently under investigation" but declined to give any further details.

Claim: "We have, right now, Hezbollah, which is working throughout Latin America, in Venezuela, in Mexico, throughout Latin America, which poses a very significant and imminent threat to the United States of America."
Evidence Summary: Israel has long called for a crackdown on the Iran-backed Hezbollah, a heavily armed mini-army that is believed to possess an arsenal of some 150,000 rockets that can reach nearly all of Israel. In recent years, Hezbollah has been bogged down in fighting in Syria on behalf of Syrian President Bashar Assad's government. But with that war winding down, Israeli security officials fear Hezbollah is refocusing its attention on Israel. As Iran and Venezuela become increasingly isolated and sanctioned by the U.S and much of the international community, the two governments are said to be tightening their bond.

Claim: "The last six polls, including this week's Time magazine, show that I beat John McCain by six or seven points."
Evidence Summary: "If that's the case, whether I end up running or not, that's a victory," he said. He said he'll tout his strong performance in last fall's Senate race in Ohio to urge fellow Democrats to embrace the approach in their campaigns. "I don't think it's an either/or, I think you do both. That's how you win in the heartland," Rostenowski said. "What matters to us is that everybody gets a fighting chance," she said.

Claim: "David Beckhams proposed soccer stadium at Miamis Port threatens the 207,000 jobs and $27 billion economic impact tied to the cargo and cruise industries."
Evidence Summary: Sterling Bay has rejected a plan to build a 20,000-seat stadium. The plan would have meant more traffic on the streets of the city. The decision is a step in the right direction, but not the end of the problem. The city is still trying to find a way to pay for the new stadium, which would have cost $1.5 billion. It's not clear if the city will be able to afford the cost of a new stadium by the time it's built.

Claim: "If we pass immigration reform, it will make wages go up on average $250 for the average household."
Evidence Summary: The upward trajectory of black, Hispanic and every other group’s employment rates has continued a climb that began under President Barack Obama. Trump's highlighting unemployed black and Hispanic workers as victims of illegal immigration unfortunately suggests a new version of an old sneaky divide-and-conquer political tactic. While there is little argument that a growing percentage of low-skilled immigrants undercuts the job supply and pay, some researchers also have found that an increase in the labor supply through immigration often generates more jobs in the long run.

Claim: "Says that when President Bill Clinton raised the top tax rates to levels now proposed by Obama, the country experienced significant job growth."
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Thanks to this administration’s pro-growth policies, over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’

Claim: Scott Walker gave Wisconsin job creation money to his cronies: corporate friends who contributed to his campaigns and got $570 million in job-development incentives
Evidence Summary: Walker didn't deliver on his signature 2010 campaign promise to create 250,000 private-sector jobs in his first term. He faced investigations, first into aides and political allies from his time as Milwaukee County executive, then into his recall campaign. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus. Just three weeks before leaving office, Walker signed Republican legislation weakening the powers of his successor as well as the incoming Democratic attorney general.

Claim: "Due to actions by President Barack Obama, the Burger King national headquarters announced this month that they will be pulling their franchises from our military bases."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump served McDonalds, Burger King and Wendy's at the White House. The president bragged on Twitter about ordering more than 1,000 "hamberders" Burger King said it "has a pulse on pop culture" and told the Associated Press: "We like to playfully joke around with what the internet and news outlets are saying, but never to be mean spirited" Columbia Sportswear Co. last week on Twitter relayed a message from CEO Tim Boyle that included the phrase "Make America's parks open again"

Claim: "(U.S. Reps.) Paul Ryan, Sean Duffy and Reid Ribble are shutting down town hall meetings, or making their constituents pay to attend them."
Evidence Summary: New members of Congress are going against the grain of how things have traditionally been done in Washington. Downtowners are increasingly nervous about how the incoming class of House Democrats will deal with lobbyists. Some lawmakers on Capitol Hill have said they will decline their pay or donate it to charity in solidarity with those affected by the partial government shutdown. “I’m six days into the term, and you already used all your ammo. So enjoy being exhausted for the next two years while we run train on the progressive agenda” – Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y.

Claim: "Rick Perry thinks injecting 11- and 12-year-old girls with a controversial drug (the HPV vaccine), without a parents consent, is a good idea."
Evidence Summary: The discredited autism hypothesis still circulates widely on social media. Of the 2,600 parents surveyed, 180 had chosen not to have their child vaccinated and two-thirds of those cited side-effects. More than 100,000 American infants and toddlers have received no vaccines whatsoever, and millions more have received only some crucial shots. It’s no mystery how we got here. On the internet, anti-vaccine propaganda has outpace d pro- vaccination public health information. The C.D.C. has a website with accurate information, but no loud public voice.

Claim: "The Republicans still want to privatize (Social Security). In fact, their whole idea is to turn over the Social Security trust fund to Wall Street."
Evidence Summary: ‘This is the new theme, for two years until the Wall is finished (under construction now), of the Republican Party. Use it and pray!’ Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, called social security a “Ponzi scheme” It has long been the dream of movement conservatives to bring to the knees a federal government. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized.

Claim: "On the night of the Iowa caucuses, Obama promised the nation that he would do health care reform focused on cost containment, he opposed an individual mandate, and he said he was going to do it with Republicans."
Evidence Summary: Andy Slavitt: Americans want to see legislation passed by both parties so it can stand the test of time. Republicans have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act, he says. Democrats have at least eight substantive proposals for achieving universal coverage, Slavitt says. Now is the perfect time to expose them to the public, debate the merits, and engage experts, he adds. The GOP failed to pursue any of these leads, he writes. The Democrats shouldn’t make the same mistake.

Claim: "One of the key things about Leonard Lance is that in 2008, when you look at [the] Project Vote Smart website, he was not for guns. Now he has gone too far to the right, saying that you can carry concealed weapons in national parks."
Evidence Summary: The organizations purport to represent the views of their rank-and-file members. Many are now openly advocating for stronger gun laws and other firearm safety initiatives. While this narrative plays out in public, the PACs funded by these doctor groups have been discreetly boosting candidates who vehemently oppose such reform efforts. This pattern of campaign donations goes “beyond hypocrisy,” said Dr. Liza Gold, a psychiatrist and Georgetown University professor who led an unsuccessful push to get the American Psychiatric Association’s PAC to stop giving to pro-gun candidates.

Claim: "Barack Obama ""wants the government to take over health care, spend hundreds of billions of dollars of new money for health insurance for everyone."""
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all” these days. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "The national debt increased $16,000 every secondGeorge Allen served in theU.S. Senate."
Evidence Summary: David Frum: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, he says. Frum says the president kept his promise not to address the unsustainable trajectory of the entitlement state. The Republican-controlled Senate will not deliberate about, much less pass, legislation the president does not favor, he writes. The evident theory is that it would be lese-majeste for the Senate to express independent judgments, Frum writes.

Claim: "Our small staff of 51 is still fewer than we had a decade ago, yet our caseload -- like that of other courts -- has grown."
Evidence Summary: The number of cases filed in the courts is on the rise. The number of judges is also on the increase. The court system is in a state of crisis. The courts are under pressure to make up for the shortfall in staff. The government is trying to find a way to ease the pressure on the courts. The UK is one of the few countries in the world to have a court system in place to deal with the growing number of court cases. The U.S. is the only country in Europe to have such a system, but it is under threat.

Claim: "On whether he would vote for the budget proposed by Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis."
Evidence Summary: "The president will have problems on his own side of the aisle for exploiting the situation," she said. "I think he's going to have to answer to his own party on usurping that much power" "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," she added. “I haven’t decided who I’m going to endorse in 2020. I going to wait and see what the alternatives are,” he said.

Claim: "Says U.S. Rep. John Barrow, D-Ga., celebrates gun ownership even in the face of school shootings."
Evidence Summary: The Parkland shooting has become a catalyst for the national debate on gun control. Gun safety advocates say the law is riddled with loopholes that allow felons, domestic abusers and others to purchase guns. Five people were killed in a shooting at a bank in Sebring, Florida, but, whether because of the government shutdown, the related wrangling over the State of the Union or something else entirely, America's leaders didn't seem to notice. The indifference may also be reflective of the political navel-gazing that's allowed some 800,000 federal employees to work a month without pay.

Claim: "Schoolchildren across the nation ""will be forced to watch the president justify his plans for government-run health care, banks, and automobile companies, increasing taxes on those who create jobs, and racking up more debt than any other president."""
Evidence Summary: There is a sickness in this country that allowed this carbuncular president to swell to the surface. The top 1 percent of Americans haven’t controlled this much wealth since the 1920s. Times remain so good that people have the energy to get angry at Trump for serving fast-food burgers to football players. The test today will be whether congressional Republicans think the primetime address was enough to revive more public support for the shutdown. The toughest challenges included two government shutdowns, school shootings and the immigration impasse.

Claim: "The fact is, in the past year we have had more tax cuts than almost any time in our nation's history."
Evidence Summary: As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes.” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and Mr. Bush wasn’t re-elected. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he said.

Claim: "Says a new state report confirms that red-light cameras lead to more accidents, more injuries and greater cost."
Evidence Summary: In 2016, 37,461 people died in motor vehicle crashes, up from 32,744 in 2014. The driving death rate increased in Colorado and Washington after legalization. Prince Philip’s car crash in Norfolk last week reignited the debate around road safety after it emerged police and councillors had clashed over plans to install speed cameras where the accident occurred. But it has transpired the plans were agreed by police more than two years ago, only to be rejected by local councillors, who feared they would become a “cash cow”

Claim: "Only seven of 18 federal food assistance programs have been associated with positive health and nutrition outcomes, while the remaining 11 have not been effective."
Evidence Summary: Cash assistance to buy groceries, commonly called food stamps, are funded through February – but beyond that is a question mark. A third of college students don't always have enough food to eat, and the federal government could be doing more to help. Some states are concerned about the Agriculture Department’s ability to keep afloat all 90 state agencies that administer WIC benefits. The federal government is working to keep money flowing to states for another major food assistance program, which benefits pregnant women, infants and children.

Claim: "When his grandfather arrived in the United States, there were no government benefits for immigrants."
Evidence Summary: Tom Gjelten's 2015 book about immigration is "A Nation Of Nations: A Great American Immigration Story" He says action by Congress in 1965 established new rules allowing immigrants in the country to sponsor relatives to come to the U.S. He says we don't want an economy filled with people who don’t have to work or whose work is preserving the wealth that their great-grandfathers made. The wall remains the wrong direction for us as a country, he says.

Claim: "We have over 700,000 illegal immigrants in the state. Theyre costing us billions of dollars and theyre taking legal residents jobs."
Evidence Summary: Williams: "We have about 13 million people in this country who are here, in one form or another, illegally" "This notion that those individuals are terrorists ... very few of them," he says. Williams: "I’m total[ly] for border security. If you live in Texas, you get it. We want people to realize the American dream, but they need to do it legally" "It’s likely that more 20 million people are already living in our country illegally right now," he adds.

Claim: "A third of all the young people in America are not in America today because of abortion, because one in three pregnancies end in abortion."
Evidence Summary: Kristan Hawkins: In 1972, 39 women in the U.S. died from illegal abortions. Hawkins: Less teens having sex means that there are less pregnancies. She says this generation is motivated to help women and their preborn children.Hawkins: This is not a partisan issue. The real question is how best to treat the least of these and whether discrimination against those in the womb represents our American ideals, she says. The Supreme Court will decide whether to review this case in 2019.

Claim: "According to the most recent jobs report, weve got more Americans leaving the workforce than we have finding jobs."
Evidence Summary: “2018 was a banner year for the labor market,” said Julia Pollak, a labor economist at the online employment market site ZipRecruiter. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains, and African-Americans, whose jobless rate has reached record lows.

Claim: "In my home state, nearly one in five Floridians live in poverty."
Evidence Summary: This is an affluent part of the state that has long reaped the rewards of big oil mining in the area. Only 7% of residents live below the poverty line, over 80% of high school graduates go on to further education. Just outside Jefords’ office, shuttered storefronts and near empty stores on the town’s main drag lay empty as the evidence of the flagging economy in Jesup. “We needed Trump to help us survive,” one resident says.

Claim: "Ninety-four percent of the bills that pass the Senate have no debate, no vote, no amendments, no reading of the bill, no online disclosure."
Evidence Summary: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell hopes to get consent to start debate on the bill Tuesday. Democrats could filibuster the "motion to proceed" to the bill. McConnell's bill Thursday got 48 votes, 12 short of the number needed to move to a full Senate debate. The House passed similar measures repeatedly, but those bills haven't been able to emerge from the Senate, where 60 votes are required. The White House has not said if it will sign or veto the bill, which would ban federal funding of abortion or insurance that covers it.

Claim: "Since last years address, more than 10,000 jobs created -- many on the high end of the employment scale."
Evidence Summary: The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion.

Claim: Says Scott Walkers bad budget includes: No weekend for workers.
Evidence Summary: Friday is the day when the partial federal government shutdown will officially hit their pocketbooks. Grocery stores and restaurants are handing out free food. Unions are negotiating to get their members more time to pay utility bills. Banks and credit unions are waiving late fees or offering low- or no-interest loans to qualified borrowers. “This shutdown isn’t funny anymore,” Randy Erwin, the president of the National Federation of Federal Employees said at a rally in downtown Washington on Thursday.

Claim: "Since 9/11, right-wing extremists (incl anti-abortion, anti-gov) have killed more Americans than Islamic extremists."
Evidence Summary: Right-wing and jihadist attacks touch different political nerves in the American psyche. Like all forms of terrorism, right-wing terrorism is horrible because it kills innocent people and frightens far more. Right-wing terrorists draw on greater numbers of Americans who share at least some of their extreme views. Based on the 17 incidents that the ADL included in their report, which resulted in 50 deaths, the group concludes that right- wing extremists killed more people in 2018 than any year since 1995 when the Oklahoma City bombings took place.

Claim: "Under Hillary Clinton, State Department officials were sending official thank-yous to people who gave to the Clinton Foundation."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi: "Maybe he [President Donald Trump] thinks it's ok not to pay people who work" Buzzfeed News: Trump directed his longtime attorney Michael Cohen to lie to Congress about negotiations to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. NBC News has not yet confirmed the Buzzfeed report. The two most important words in American politics today are these two: “if true.” “I’d like to know what happened to all that money.’’ “To the person who keeps on trashing Trump, but yet wonders why we keep talking about Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama: You need to go back in time and write all these things down’

Claim: "Says Bill Clinton signed a law very similar to, and Barack Obama voted for a law something like, Indianas Religious Freedom Restoration Act."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump is set to proclaim January 16 as Religious Freedom Day. The day is supposed to be a moment to celebrate all faiths (or none) in the US. But it is also a time to push back against efforts to undermine religious freedom. This column is adapted from a commentary delivered by Jonathan Wilson-Hartgrove, author of "Reconstructing the Gospel: Finding Freedom From Slaveholder Religion" It is published by Simon & Schuster, a division of Penguin Random House, Inc.

Claim: "Says the United States is the only nation that affords citizenship to anyone born here, whether you are here legally or illegally."
Evidence Summary: On Saturday, Trump delivered a unifying statement in reaction to a naturalization ceremony. The speech described U.S. citizenship as having “no distinctions or race or class or gender or background” “We say no to building a wall and yes to building community,” he said. “If anything, this sounds completely hypocritical,’ said A.B. Sisa, a CNN Opinion contributor. "It is people like you who write Opinion News instead of reporting News as once was," she said.

Claim: "Mary Burkes record: 130,000 fewer jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. "The hardest part is the demoralizing of our employment," said Lauris Olson, chair of the Story County Board of Supervisors.

Claim: "Says she would bring 186,740 new jobs to Wisconsin and Donald Trump would cost Wisconsin 61,050 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. Walker didn't deliver on his signature 2010 campaign promise to create 250,000 private-sector jobs in his first term. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in up to 13,000 new jobs.

Claim: "Says that in 41 states, government workers are better paid than the taxpayers who support them."
Evidence Summary: Alaska has the highest percentage of civilian federal employees who work for agencies affected by the shutdown in a single state. The average paycheck for federal employees there is near the middle of all states: about $77,000 a year. Even today, black and Latino workers are better-represented in public-sector jobs than in the broader U.S. workforce. In recent years, however, federal workers have lagged their private-sector counterparts when it comes to getting a pay hike. The lowest-paid postal employee in Des Moines, Iowa, earns $15 per hour, federal data show.

Claim: "500,000 people have signed up for #Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: The share of Americans without health insurance reached its low point of 11 percent in the third and fourth quarters of 2016. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. About 10 million people who don't get health insurance on the job purchase individual policies under the ACA. The administration is also proposing to require insurers that cover abortion to offer a "mirror" plan that does not. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes.

Claim: The number of new illegal immigrant families who have crossed the border so far this year already exceeds the entire total from 2015.
Evidence Summary: Administration figures show that 161,000 family units crossed the border in fiscal 2018, a 50 percent increase from the year before. Homeland Security officials also have said 60,000 unaccompanied children crossed theborder last year, a 25 percent increase. On Thursday, Trump plans a personal visit to the Mexican border, where his administration says an illegal immigration "crisis" is worsening by the day. South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham told Fox News that he doesn't know what Trump will say during his prime-time address.

Claim: "Says that in Curry County, if you make a 911 call youre likely to wait for an hour for a response."
Evidence Summary: A Scottish Ambulance Service spokesperson said: "In life-threatening emergency situations, every second can count" The 5-minute, 11-second 911 call details the minutes after a woman at Hacienda HealthCare gave birth. Staff can be heard trying to resuscitate the baby. According to court records, the woman is "not alert" and needs a "maximum level of care" Phoenix police have called their investigation into “a helpless victim who was sexually assaulted’ the department’s “the highest priority”

Claim: "Says when he was governor, most of the Democrats voted for his billion-dollar property-tax cuts, but U.S. Senate rival Tammy Baldwin voted against it."
Evidence Summary: George Will: Democrats have to "own" districts like hers, "not rent them" Will: Rauner was right when he said Democrats in other states have championed pro-growth policies. Will: He could have had a track record of accomplishment if he hadn’t chosen to relentlessly accuse Democratic legislative leaders of being crooked and corrupt when he needed their respect and cooperation to begin to advance his agenda. He says Democrats picked up seven gubernatorial seats previously held by Republicans in November, running mostly on a message of expanding health care coverage and increasing education funding.

Claim: "When Tallahassee politicians and bureaucrats tried to run our schools, Ive stood up to them to protect local control."
Evidence Summary: "Being a good citizen sometimes conflicts with being good parents," Thompson says. Supporters say Thompson made a mark by improving computer access, launching Spanish-language and STEM programs, and expanding preschool offerings. “We want our schools to improve and we’ll do anything we can to help. We have to do something,” Thompson says of the public schools he attended as a child and now teaches at.“Instead, I turn to the adults and administration that are charged with teaching them, and to those who are silently letting others promote this behavior.”

Claim: "Mitt Romney is tearing down his 3,000-square-foot house to build an 11,000-square-foot house."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney is a supremely transactional figure, flexible in altering his words and his positions to align with self-interest as the occasion demands. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romney's repeal of Obamacare. Trump’s rejoinder Wednesday: “I won big, and he didn’t.”

Claim: "Jeff Weems legal record is one of defending BP, Enron and just about every big oil company against the working man."
Evidence Summary: In 2017, The New York Times described Friedrich as Mueller's "legal pit bull" Dubelier did not mention the connection between Friedrich and Weissman -- who both served on the multiagency Enron Task Force in the wake of the energy company's 2001 collapse amid financial misdeeds. Warren has proven that, among Democrats, she is perhaps singularly capable of wielding power against monopolistic or otherwise corrupt corporations. She spearheaded the creation of a new, aggressive consumer-protection watchdog that went after crooked lenders. Harris described herself as a “progressive prosecutor” who supported in equal measure harsh punishments for violent offenders.

Claim: "Prior to 1962, everybody prayed before school started, and the Bible was the principal textbook in all schools."
Evidence Summary: A wave of “Bible literacy” bills emerging in state legislatures would allow more students in public high schools to study the Old and New Testaments. Proposals from lawmakers in at least six states would require or encourage public schools to offer elective classes on the Bible’s literary and historical significance. Groups that pushed bills to post the national motto in schools are now pushing legislation to require elective Bible classes. "This is how we came about as a country. We have to do something," one teacher says.

Claim: "A DeKalb sewer project will create up to 4,000 direct jobs per year at peak production, many of which will be set aside exclusively for DeKalb residents."
Evidence Summary: In many storms, says Aaron Koch, the Deep Tunnel is helpless to empty undersized sewers. The congested network of neighborhood sewers in Chicago and its suburbs remain an unresolved issue. Philadelphia is trying to transform itself into a sponge with park space, street trees, and permeable pavement. St. Louis, which has the fourth-largest sewer system in the country, is under a consent decree to commit $4.7 billion to ending its overflows through deep tunnels.“If I was one of these other cities that have been convinced a deep tunnel system would make the difference, I’d be pretty angry by now,” Bernstein says.

Claim: "Romney said ""'No' to in-state tuition"" for illegal immigrants."
Evidence Summary: Romney said he was prompted to write the op-ed due in part to Defense Secretary James Mattis’ abrupt departure and Trump’s decision to withdraw troops from Syria. The former Massachusetts governor has flip-flopped on his support for Trump in the past, but pledged to stand against the president during his Senate bid and speak his mind if he disagreed with White House policies. Romney said the country deserves border security, which includes more barriers on the U.S.-Mexico border. He implored the two sides to "make a deal" and end the suffering of federal workers.

Claim: "You cant give a child an aspirin in school without permission. You cant do any kind of medication, but we can secretly take the child off and have an abortion."
Evidence Summary: A Florida state lawmaker has filed a bill that would ban abortion if a fetal heartbeat is detected. Sarah Valliere: Science has left Roe behind, but some Americans are still beholden to the "musty" legal decision. Valliere says she had to get parental consent to get an abortion, which was a huge roadblock to access. March for Life president Jeanne F. Mancini: Let’s hope and work for public policy grounded in the most up-to-date science and technology.

Claim: "Twenty percent of single adults, ages 21 to 25 with no kids, are not working or even in school trying to find a job."
Evidence Summary: A new report found that American women aren't having enough babies to replace the current population. The nation's total fertility rate was 16 percent below the level for a population to replace itself in 2017. "We are horrifyingly far behind. The U.S. is one of the most family-hostile countries across the world, which is really sad," said author Joanne Collins, who wrote about her findings in a new book. "Women are blaming themselves as individuals for something that is a deeply structural and societal problem," she said.

Claim: "Says Steve Kagen promised us jobs, voting for the $787 billion stimulus. Cost: another 77,000 jobs lost."
Evidence Summary: Walker didn't deliver on his signature 2010 campaign promise to create 250,000 private-sector jobs in his first term. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in up to 13,000 new jobs and a $10 billion investment. Ross downplayed the effect on the broader economy from the estimated 800,000 workers not receiving pay. The comments come one day after President Donald Trump's daughter-in-law and campaign adviser, Lara Trump, faced criticism for her own comments regarding government workers.

Claim: "Gas prices have gone up 99 percent since Obama became president, the highest gas price increase since Carter."
Evidence Summary: The Dow had increased 149 percent during President Barack Obama’s eight years in office. Trump insisted he deserved the credit for a spectacular turnaround, repeatedly attacking the press for failing to acknowledge his genius. The outlook was much better for consumers at the fuel pump, where gas dipped to less than $2 in some locations. Experts said Trump can take some credit for the increased supply of gas that has driven prices lower, but that fuel economics is a hugely complex subject, impacted by many variables.

Claim: "A report just came out that if we continue with President Obamas policies, were looking at over 9 percent unemployment next year in the fourth quarter."
Evidence Summary: The jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. “If you can’t succeed in an environment like this, a strong economy, it’s a problem.” —Craig Johnson, president of retail analysts Customer Growth Partners.

Claim: "At nearly 19 million people, the population of Florida is larger than all the earlier primary and caucus states combined."
Evidence Summary: Elections supervisors began accepting former felons’ registrations on Tuesday. “Democrats will never stop fighting to expand access to the ballot and ensure that no one is silenced or sidelined on Election Day,” Tom Perez, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said. University of Florida political science professor Dan Smith analyzed state voter data released last week. About 37 percent of the state's 18- to 29 year-olds voted in November, a 15 point increase compared with the 22 percent who voted in 2014.

Claim: "For every one ESD superintendent position, we can pay for three speech pathologists, or three special needs instructors, or three classroom teachers."
Evidence Summary: Bosma said the target could help boost teacher salaries while the state budget remains tight. "No school purposefully overspends on administration," Bosma said. Lake Central Superintendent Larry Veracco: "I do find it interesting that the General Assembly recognizes the impact (shortage) of nearly frozen teacher salaries over the past decade" State fiscal analysts project tax revenues will grow by about 2.5 percent each year for the new two-year budget starting in July. But the state's troubled Department of Child Services is seeking about two-thirds of that money to keep paying for hundreds of new child welfare caseworkers.

Claim: "Says Apple products are currently 90 percent conflict-free, and Intel is 100 percent conflict-free."
Evidence Summary: Apple struck deals with Vizio, Samsung, Sony and LG to use its software. The deals show Apple’s ambition to make more money from content and services, as sales of its cash cow, the iPhone, slow down. When the government asked Palantir and Oracle to share the number of women and minorities it employs, the companies tried to hide the numbers, citing them as “trade secrets” According to a report from Reveal News, the numbers are abysmal.

Claim: "Crimea became part of Ukraine only in 1954. Crimea was historically part of Russia, and (Nikita) Khrushchev gave it to Ukraine in a gesture that mystified some people."
Evidence Summary: Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. In November, Russia detained three Ukrainian navy vessels and their crews in the vicinity of the strait. The strait lies off Ukraine's Crimea peninsula, which Russia annexed in 2014, fuelling tensions between the two countries. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Friday that President Vladimir Putin had agreed to a proposal by German Chancellor Angela Merkel for German experts to monitor the Kerch Strait near Crimea. He said Putin agreed to the request a month ago, but that the Germans had still not arrived.

Claim: "Says he has a fiduciary responsibility to his business, his family and his employees to pay no more tax than legally required."
Evidence Summary: The consultation paper is available on the Treasury website and submissions close on 22 February. It is shaping up to be a big test of the Trump administration and is an increasingly important pressure point in the fight over the ongoing partial government shutdown. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Treasury Secretary Seselja said in a statement. "If you don’t pay refunds to people who are expecting them on a timely basis, all hell breaks loose.”

Claim: "During the (housing) crisis, Catherine Cortez Masto gave a sweetheart contract worth millions to a D.C. law firm that then donated thousands to her political campaigns."
Evidence Summary: Spano loaned his congressional campaign $174,500 at about the same time he borrowed $180,000 from two friends. The loans, first reported by the Tampa Bay Times, weren’t disclosed for two months. The bulk of the personal loans made to Spano came from Cary Carreno, a longtime friend who advanced the candidate $110,000. Coupled with the $75,521 now flagged by the FEC, nearly one-third of the $881,321 brought in his campaign is under some form of scrutiny.

Claim: "Rick Scott ""was forced to resign as the head of a company that pled guilty to massive amounts of systematic fraud, including 14 felonies, leading to a historic $1.7 billion fine."""
Evidence Summary: Federal judge expresses concerns with Gov. Rick Scott's suspension of Brenda Snipes. Snipes is suing both Scott and the GOP-controlled Florida Senate. Scott and Snipes had feuded during a hotly disputed recount after the November midterms. Scott asked state police to investigate Snipes' office for what “may be rampant fraud.’ Snipes announced her resignation just before Scott signed an executive order vilifying her performance and suspending her. She wants her job reinstated and Scott’s order dismissed.

Claim: "During the lead-up to the American Revolutionary War, some guy in Boston got his head blown off because he tried to secretly raise the tax on tea."
Evidence Summary: 'The First Conspiracy' details the 1776 plot to assassinate George Washington. The plot was foiled by a would-be counterfeiter and an iron mill foreman. The book takes place in 1776, during the first months of the Revolutionary War. It's an intriguing look at the so-called "Hickey plot," the foiled conspiracy that, had it succeeded, might have killed the American dream before it even began. The First Conspiracy by Brad Meltzer and Josh Mensch is published by Simon & Schuster.

Claim: "The wages of about 60,562 state and local government employees would be affected if the minimum wage is increased to $10.10 in Georgia, for a combined cost to taxpayers of more than $164 million annually."
Evidence Summary: Since the movement started, 22 million low-wage workers have received raises thanks to state and local increases. The majority of those raises came in places that updated their minimums to $15 an hour. The demand for a $15 wage floor is not arbitrary. At that level, the minimum wage is as valuable today in terms of purchasing power as it was in 1968. It could help curb this country’s nicotine addiction. It would also improve the health of millions of Americans and as a physician I am particularly intrigued by its potential to help my patients.

Claim: "It doesn't make sense ""historically"" to drop out because the 1968 race was still competitive when ""Bobby Kennedy was assassinated in June in California."""
Evidence Summary: After Bobby was killed in '68, he was immediately thrust into contention for the presidency at the '68 convention. He considered it, but he turned it down. And then a year later, Chappaquiddick happens. And so that really puts the presidency out of consideration in '72 and then again in '76. And it starved Kennedy of the ability to get into the news cycle because he couldn't criticize Carter on it. So he was really stuck there on that. He couldn't really agree with Carter on how he was doing it.

Claim: "Says opponent Kathie Tovo believes that Austin invests too much in the cops, firefighters and paramedics that protect our families and neighborhoods."
Evidence Summary: Violent crimes in El Paso, Texas, have fallen sharply from about 6,500 in 1993 to around 3,000 today. City Bureau’s founders emphasized the ways their training might improve the lives of residents. “We weren’t asking for something back,” Holliday said of City Bureau's training. ‘A Texas sheriff is taking on speeders in his county by placing cardboard cutouts of deputies next to roads rife with lead-footed drivers.’

Claim: "Newt Gingrich was fined $300,000 for ethics violations."
Evidence Summary: Trump tweeted that President Obama had a campaign finance violation and it was easily settled. This is false by omission, because it ignores an entire category of criminal offenses for, e.g., knowing and willful violations of campaign finance law. The Federal Election Commission in 2013 fined Obama’s 2008 campaign $375,000 after it failed to provide a series of 48-hour notices for nearly 1,300 contributions that totaled more than $1.8 million. Cohen was sentenced in December to three years in prison for what a Manhattan federal court judge called a “veritable smorgasbord’

Claim: "The entirety of North America -- Canada, the United States and Mexico -- theres more known reserves in those three countries than in Russia and Saudi Arabia."
Evidence Summary: Saudi Aramco CEO: "I don't see peak [oil] demand happening in 10 years or even by 2040" Saudi Arabia announced it has 268.5 billion barrels of proven crude oil reserves, a figure 2.2 billion barrels higher than previously known. The kingdom's oil reserves are among the cheapest in the world to recover at around $4 per barrel. Russia and Saudi Arabia are the world’s two largest oil producers behind the U.S., which took the top spot over the past year.

Claim: "Its costing every American who is insured $1,100 to pick up the cost of uncompensated care that goes on at the emergency room."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That's 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years — and there’s still a health care worker shortage. The health care industry heavily markets its own importance and pushes treating illness over preventing it with lifestyle modification. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found.

Claim: "Says under Mitt Romney, Massachusetts was 47th in job creation."
Evidence Summary: The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon.

Claim: "Virginia was named best managed state, best state for business and best state toraise a child while I was governor."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Jerry Brown signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. Mr. Newsom, in interviews, has pledged to increase spending on early childhood education and a few other programs. He said he would continue the fiscal practices followed by the departing governor. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed a bill that gave power to the Republican-controlled state legislature. The coercive power of the state should be invoked sparingly, Mr. Brown said.

Claim: "For middle-class families under the Baucus plan, 13 percent of what they make could be deducted directly from their paychecks . . . the so-called Max Tax."
Evidence Summary: A poll taken last weekend by The Hill-HarrisX found 59 percent support for taking income over $10 million at 70 percent. A 2017 Reuters-Ipsos poll found 76 percent of respondents agreeing with the proposition that “the wealthiest Americans should pay higher tax rates. In Illinois, where newly elected Gov. J.B. Pritzker has promised to work to overturn the state constitutional ban on graduated state income tax rates, 72 percent gave a thumbs-up to the idea of graduated income taxes.

Claim: "Rhode Islands voter identification law was pushed by a black Democrat in the House, a black Democrat in the Senate. Thats a fact."
Evidence Summary: A whopping 77.8 percent expressed support for ending tax cuts for the wealthy or building a tax code that aims to more deeply benefit working families. More than 400,000 votes were cast by mail during the 2018 midterms, by far the most for any election, including presidential elections, in state history. Florida voters’ passage of Amendment 4, a voter-approved measure that restores voting rights to up to 1.5 million mostly black felons, is proving a racial hot potato to the incoming governor.

Claim: "Jeff Greene only moved from California to Florida in the last two years. In fact, he would not legally be allowed to run for any other statewide office because he has not lived here long enough to meet the residency requirement."
Evidence Summary: Florida's incoming Republican governor Ron DeSantis came under fire after he maintained that the amendment could not go into effect until after the state legislature took action. Andrew should be commended for his courage to run and offer Florida voters a real choice in the primary. No one thought a mayor, who might as well have lived in another state in the eyes of South Florida Democrats, would have a shot in hell at winning a statewide primary until he did it. A state Democratic party electorate that became majority minority for the first time was met in the moment by a candidate who shared their background.

Claim: "President Obama has increased the federal workforce 192,000 individuals -- about 10 percent since hes taken office -- while weve lost 2 million jobs."
Evidence Summary: Over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. The manufacturing industry has boomed after suffering for years. Last year was America's best manufacturing performance since 1997 - since before China joined the World Trade Organization and sucked all those jobs away.

Claim: "Says Alison Lundergan Grimes supports Obamacare, which cuts $700 billion from seniors Medicare."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi deputy chief of staff Drew Hammill fired back shortly afterward, tweeting: "A vote AGAINST the Democratic Rules package is a vote to let [Director of the Office of Management and Budget] Mick Mulvaney make across the board cuts" A study released in July by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University said Ocasio-Cortez's proposed 'Medicare for all' solution would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years. Such proposals would lead to more government involvement in health care, and bring the U.S. closer to mostly socialized systems.

Claim: "Obamacare will provide coverage for abortions, despite the presidents commitment that it would not."
Evidence Summary: At issue is a requirement under Obama's health care law that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. Obama officials included exemptions for religious organizations. The Trump administration expanded those exemptions and added "moral convictions" as a basis to opt out. A judge blocked the change from going into effect Monday while a challenge from Democratic attorneys general proceeds. Another change in the works would require insurance companies that offer plans through the health exchanges covered by the Affordable Care Act to bill separately the portion of a premium that covers most abortion services.

Claim: "The church Barack Obama belongs to has a ""nonnegotiable commitment to Africa."""
Evidence Summary: As president, Obama often chose race-neutral language while pressing for health care, criminal justice and immigration reform. As a candidate, Obama demonstrated both the ability to speak about race, injustice and inequality and the skill to evade it. The gravitational pull of white evangelicals has been less visible, but it could have far-reaching policy consequences. Trump’s instinctive embrace of autocrats, and the private interests of the Trump Organisation have all been analysed as driving forces behind his foreign policy.

Claim: "After shedding jobs for more than 10 years, our manufacturers have added about 500,000 jobs over the past three."
Evidence Summary: Manufacturing added 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion. The manufacturing sector was also using more of capacity, a sign that companies might need to invest more in equipment and facilities. Despite the increase in the unemployment rate, the influx of people searching for work coupled with the job gains is an indication that the rate should decline in the coming months.

Claim: "Fifty-one percent -- that is, a majority of American households -- paid no income tax in 2009. Zero. Zip. Nada."
Evidence Summary: The top marginal federal income tax rate (the rate paid by the highest earners) rose to 63 percent in 1932, spiked at 92 percent in 1953 and didn’t fall to pre-1932 levels until 1982. The point of high top marginal income tax rates is to constrain the immoderate, and especially unmerited, accumulation of riches. The lower half of income distribution has been shut out from economic growth: Its income per adult was $16,000 in 1980 (adjusted for inflation), and it still is around $ 16,000 today.

Claim: "Members of Congress ""have not reduced their salaries ... since the Great Depression,"" meaning they've gone ""eight decades without a pay cut."""
Evidence Summary: With persistent turnover, Congress is left without strong institutional capacity to do its job of overseeing the executive branch. Staff pay has stagnated over the same period — and in recent years has even fallen. This underfunding has also left Congress to deal with an antiquated technology system and no team of experts to update and innovate.Someone please explain to me why our members of Congress are being paid during the shutdown. Are they not government employees? If they were not paid, maybe they would understand more personally how the shutdown hits the pockets of the 800,000 government employees.

Claim: "Last week Senator Obama's running mate said, get this, 'Raising taxes is patriotic.' "
Evidence Summary: "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he said. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" Tlaib's moment of honesty came as she rallied a crowd of supporters Thursday night, recounting a conversation she had with her 13-year-old son about her plans for public service. "When your son looks at you and says, ‘Momma look, you won, bullies don’t win,’ and I said, 'Baby they don”t, because we’re going to go in there and we're gonna impeach the mother-----r,' ” she said.

Claim: "Today, American companies have nearly $2 trillion sitting on their balance sheets."
Evidence Summary: Some investors were heartened by Apple’s plans on using its cash pile. In the latest fiscal year, ended Sept. 29, unit sales of the iPhone were essentially flat from the prior year. iPhone revenue expanded 18 percent to $166.7 billion. In his letter, Cook said Apple has $130 billion in net cash and that it intends to continue its efforts to reduce that cash balance to net zero, which the company has so far accomplished through dividend increases and share buybacks.

Claim: "Says 31 percent of Texas physicians accept all new Medicaid patients, down from 67 percent in 2000."
Evidence Summary: Clinics are torn over whether to tell patients about the risks of signing up for Medicaid. "We are walking a fine line," says Tara McCollum Plese, chief external affairs officer at the Arizona Alliance for Community Health Centers. For doctors who treat addiction on the ground in Maine, health care coverage under Medicaid can change the course of their patients’ lives. The Trump administration is quietly devising a plan bypassing Congress to give block grants to states for Medicaid, sources say.

Claim: "Under Lee Fisher Ohio has lost nearly 400,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. “My kids can’t afford the lifestyle we gave them without leaving town,” said Ed Jeffords, whose son plans to move to Orlando. Central Iowan companies are struggling to find a way to retain talent amid extremely low unemployment rates, said Lauris Olson, chair of the Story County Board of Supervisors.

Claim: "Says 1,000 World War II veterans die every day."
Evidence Summary: A rare convergence of experts on the human costs of war will discuss the often-ignored outgrowth of the global war on terror: two decades of civilian casualties. Times journalist and Marine Corps infantry veteran C. J. Chivers, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for his 2016 story about an Afghan war veteran suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, will moderate the discussion. More of my brothers from that deployment have died from suicide than combat: Nine were killed in Iraq; 15 have killed themselves back at home. According to a recent VA report about 26 of 100,000 veterans committed suicide compared to roughly 17 per 100,00 non-veteran adults.

Claim: "Federal officials declared that grant funds could be used only for Milwaukees streetcar project, meaning it isnt possible to redirect the money to other modes of public transportation or to our public schools."
Evidence Summary: Delays in receiving funding from the state isn’t helping matters, district officials said. District 308 Chief Financial Officer Christi Tyler told The Beacon-News the state is late in sending $5.2 million in payments for special education and transportation. The district may consider issuing tax anticipation warrants to make up the difference, she said. “It's like a payday loan.” Preckwinkle was asked how she’d pay for free tuition and transit rides, given the city’s deep financial challenges.

Claim: "The John McCain Twitter account has more than 1.1 million followers. The official White House Twitter account has only about 830,000."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez is a prolific tweeter with a knack for a galvanizing — or infuriating — message, depending on where a follower rests on the political spectrum. She easily outpaced Rep. Nancy Pelosi, Sen. Chuck Schumer and Sen. Kamala Harris. Her tally is still dwarfed by Twitter juggernaut @realDonald Trump, with 39.8 million interactions, according to CrowdTangle. Trump has 57.3 million Twitter followers, while @AOC has 2.37 million.

Claim: "The stimulus bill includes ""$300,000 for a sculpture garden in Miami."""
Evidence Summary: Congress passed the bill last month by a vote of 371-3 and President Trump signed it into law Wednesday. Some 9/11 family members fear the funds will subsidize the salaries of the private nonprofit foundation that runs the Ground Zero memorial and museum. The law authorizes grants up to $25 million a year from 2019 to 2023 for the “operation, security and maintenance” of memorials that commemorate the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks. Trump on Saturday unveiled a plan to offer several immigration-related concessions to Democrats in order to obtain $5.7 billion in funding for a wall.

Claim: "Says Marco Rubio went on Univision, and in Spanish he promised that he would not on the first day in office rescind President Obamas illegal executive action."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump gave a speech on illegal immigration on Tuesday. His remarks were widely criticized for being misleading and vague. The president also falsely said that President Obama agreed with him that the order to defer deportations for about 700,000 young immigrants exceeded his authority. A Morning Consult/POLITICO poll released Tuesday found that 42 percent of respondents agree with Trump that illegal immigration is a crisis, while an additional 37 percent see it as a problem, with just 12 percent seeing nothing amiss at the border.

Claim: "Under President Obama, U.S. security funding for Israel is at an all-time high."
Evidence Summary: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has defended the Qatari aid in the face of fierce criticism from within his hard-line coalition. Renewed hostilities would open him up to even harsher criticism from his main rivals on the right. "The last thing he needs right now is in the middle of an election campaign to be focused again on Gaza and to let Hamas set the agenda for Israel," a political science professor said. Netanyahu said recent attacks by the Islamist Boko Haram insurgency and a militant attack on a hotel in Nairobi, Kenya, showed the need to cooperate on security.

Claim: "When the United States ""first created the federal income tax, frankly, nobody below a million dollars a year paid anything."""
Evidence Summary: In 1980, America had a top income-tax rate of 70% for individuals, nearly double the current top rate of 37%. From 1940 through 1980 the top rate for the highest earners never dipped below 70%. In 1980, a fifth-grader whose allowance was less than $44 a week would have owed no tax at all on the 10-spot grammy paid for doing chores. Today the bottom rate is 10 percent -- higher than the punitive tax rate that was supposed to hit only the Kennedy and Rockefeller kids.

Claim: "Says Romney wrote in the first edition of his book that his health care plan should be expanded nationwide and then, You took it out of your book."
Evidence Summary: Romney said the country deserves border security, which includes more barriers on the U.S.-Mexico border. He said there is "humanitarian pain" being suffered by people entering the country illegally and being stopped at the border. The backing for Trump in the shutdown dual illustrates Romney's stated goal of calling the president out when he disagrees while supporting him when he feels he's staking out the right position. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare.

Claim: "Says Rep. Bruce Braley, D-Iowa, missed 79 percent of veterans affairs committee hearings."
Evidence Summary: Some worry that the hard work of pressing for the complicated and expensive health care needs, and other issues, will lack a generation of new leaders. Critics, which include nearly all of the major veterans’ organizations, say that paying for care in the private sector would starve the 153-year-old veterans' health care system. New York members were still upset that another member of their delegation, freshman Rep. Anthony Brindisi, was blocked from getting on the Armed Services Committee on Monday night.

Claim: "When Mitt Romney was governor of Massachusetts, he stood in front of a coal plant and pointed at it and said, This plant kills."
Evidence Summary: At important junctures of his public career Romney has revealed himself as a supremely transactional figure, flexible in altering his words and his positions to align with self-interest as the occasion demands. Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. In his first run for public office against then-Sen. Ted Kennedy (D) in 1994 and later in his successful 2002 race for governor of Massachusetts, Romney declared himself a strong supporter of abortion rights.

Claim: "The Central Falls School system spent $100,000 on a time clock."
Evidence Summary:  Antioch School District 34 had new debt approved by voters nearly two years ago. Libertyville, unlike District 34, saved for years to build. District 128 officials dodged taking the question of spending $54.1 million to the voters. The district, which oversees Libertyville and Vernon Hills high schools, at one time had a hoard of $80 million in rainy day reserves. “Profit isn’t everything,” she said. ‘There are more important things out there, like educating our kids.’

Claim: "If the mayor were really serious about supporting Phillys schoolchildren and handling our citys looming fiscal crisis, he could begin by slashing the size of his own administration, which is already 45 percent larger than his predecessors and 40 percent more costly."
Evidence Summary: The scrutiny is now turning to Mayor Eric Garcetti and Gov. Austin Beutner. Many observers say that an agreement between the union and the district will ultimately require more money from Mr. Newsom’s budget. Daley hopes to install as many as 60 “neighborhood school councils’ that have similar authority but oversee eight to 12 school campuses at once. He’d also change the city’S system for automatically assigning students to certain schools in their neighborhoods.

Claim: On changing the rules governing judicial conflicts of interest
Evidence Summary: No person — president, vice president or member of Congress — is above the law. Congress should act quickly and decisively to include all government officials, including the most powerful, in the definition of a federal “employee” The European Central Bank announced greatly expanded conduct rules for policymakers and supervisory board members on Wednesday, regulating a wide range of activities from investments to asset disclosures and even private engagements. Still, the ECB will have blunted tools to enforce the new rules as the most severe punishment for non-compliance will be a public reprimand.

Claim: "The law says ... when a police officer stops you, do whatever he says and then deal with it later."
Evidence Summary: Boontjer said if the suspect had stopped and followed the orders the officer gave that person, there would probably be a much different outcome. He dismissed claims of self defence as "utter nonsense" "Everybody must know the police are not there to be assaulted," he said. "It shouldn't just end with a call to the local police, who say they can't do anything," said Boontjer. "I don't think it's a problem with the criminal justice system but a societal problem"

Claim: "Says his hometown of Paint Creek, Texas, doesnt even have a ZIP code."
Evidence Summary: O’Rourke’ meteoric rise during the midterm elections, even as his winning chances remained slim throughout his campaign, made the Texas Senate race the most expensive this past election cycle. He ultimately lost to Cruz by around 3 percent of the vote, or around 200,000 votes, but drew criticism as O'Rourke refused to share his war chest with other Democrats in other states, who had better chances of winning. The erstwhile congressman is driving through some sparsely populated parts of the Southwest by himself, chatting up waitresses and motel managers.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton believes that all abortions should be legal, even on the due date of that unborn child."
Evidence Summary: “My unexpected pregnancy is now 30!” read another sign. Supporters of abortion access say bans infringe on women’s rights and health, and lead to greater rates of injury and death among pregnant women. “Every child is human even in utero and they deserve the right to life,” Sheila, a 56-year-old Maryland resident, said in an interview. Hillary Clinton called expanding women's rights "the great unfinished business of the 21st century"

Claim: "The Great Recession emerged in large part because of tax policies that slashed taxes on the wealthy, failed to invest in the middle class, took their eyes off of Wall Street, and created a perfect storm."
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. In reality, presidents don’t control the business cycle, and to Trump’s recent frustration, they don't control the Federal Reserve, either. Still, presidents do affect the economy. While it was silly to blame Obama for the vicious downturn he inherited in 2009, he could plausibly argue that his economic stimulus and other policies helped drive the recovery over the rest of his term.

Claim: "More than once, Ive actually had a conversation with the protesters on substance."
Evidence Summary: "We’ve made a lot of progress. But this month, we haven’t," he says. "I hope that we can get progressive change. I get where they’re coming from. But my role in government is to manage a lot. of competing interests.” "What I don't see are a number of leaders," he adds. "We need to have a lot more leaders. We need to make sure that we don't lose our way"

Claim: "Says any attempt to try to compare the Massachusetts health care law with the federal health care law is completely, intellectually dishonest. Governor Romney did not raise one tax in doing what he did."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney's op-ed was a shallow political miscalculation and a pathetic attempt to be the center of attention. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. Romney’s win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. Romney promptly abandoned that stance and called for defunding Planned Parenthood to win the evangelical-heavy Republican presidential primaries.

Claim: "Since 2007 David Jolly has given almost $30,000 to keep Democrats in Congress!"
Evidence Summary: David Jolly: Republicans feared the "blue wave," a surge of voter enthusiasm for Democrats. Jolly: With the election over, the party's worry has shifted to the "green wave" Jolly: Voters who turned out in November to usher in a blue wave will not walk away from the cause. If Democratic congressional leaders miss this opportunity, many voters likely won't be in 2020, he says.. Attorney David Jolly was a Republican congressman from Florida's 13th district. He left the GOP last September and is now a registered independent.

Claim: "In two years, Gov. McAuliffe has vetoed more bills that the previous three governors issued in each of their four-year terms."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom announced his 100-day agenda on Monday. Newsom inherited a $28 billion deficit and left Mr. Brown with a $14 billion surplus. He also created an $18 billion so-called rainy day fund to help the state get through what is widely viewed as an inevitable coming recession. Mr Newsom has pledged to increase spending on early childhood education and a few other programs, but nonetheless said he would continue the fiscal practices followed by the departing governor. The coercive power of the state should be invoked sparingly.

Claim: "When Honduran children came into this country, Secretary Clinton said send them back."
Evidence Summary: “Poor Mexicans, what’s in store for you!” remarked one Mexican. “Mexico is just like your country,” said Belem Gonzales. Ocasio-Cortez said the president should "personally go to Honduras so he can see with his own eyes that there are no jobs, no companies, nothing" Trump described a “humanitarian and security crisis” on the border, as he made his case for border wall funding.

Claim: The right-wing extremists are trying to take this seat so they can push their anti-choice and anti-equality agenda through our State House.
Evidence Summary: With Democrats now in control of the U.S. House of Representatives, it might appear that the fight over abortion rights has become a standoff. But those on both sides of the debate insist that won’t be the case. Despite the Republicans’ loss of the House, anti-abortion forces gained one of their most sought-after victories in decades with the confirmation of Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. Now, with a stronger possibility of a 5-4 majority in favor of more restrictions on abortion,Anti-abortion groups are eager to get test cases to the high court.

Claim: "In Atlanta, since 1994 when the Seven Deadly Sins (mandatory minimum sentences) took effect, the violent crime rate has dropped 62 percent."
Evidence Summary: The data on crime, and what it says about reforms, has been contested. Small upticks in some types of crime in some areas has muddied the picture. Activists see parallels in the strategies of opponents of more lenient sentencing laws in California and the rhetoric on crime at the national level. The former attorney general, Jeff Sessions, warned early last year about a “staggering increase in homicides.” Violent crime had ticked up in 2015 and 2016 after a long decline.

Claim: "Because of Jim Whelan, the 1990s are the only decade since the 1920s when the population of Atlantic City actually went up."
Evidence Summary: New York is America’s largest and most important city, but its role today gives little idea of the heights it reached in the middle of the last century. During World War II in particular, New York was America's center of technology and innovation. The Manhattan Project, perhaps the most consequential technological undertaking of the 20th century, was born in the borough.“Growth is going to come to an end, either suddenly or in a controlled way,” says New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio.

Claim: "John McCain offers ""billions in tax breaks for oil and drug companies, but almost nothing for families like yours."""
Evidence Summary: O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "The only winners in the race to the bottom on corporate tax are the wealthiest among us," O'Brien added. Hannity is losing it over progressive Democrats’ Green New Deal, a policy proposal that would push the country toward 100 percent renewable energy over about a decade. He is particularly upset about an idea from freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) to finance the plan by introducing a marginal tax rate of up to 70 percent.

Claim: "Sen. Sherrod Browns vote helped pass Barack Obamas job-killing health care law, which slapped small businesses throughout Ohio with a $500 billion tax increase."
Evidence Summary: Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown is launching a tour of three states that cast pivotal early votes in the 2020 presidential primary. The move from the Ohio Democrat is a key step before he decides whether to launch a campaign for the White House. Brown won a third term in November on the strength of a message he calls the "Dignity of Work" Like Trump, he's criticized trade deals such as NAFTA and supports some tariffs on imported products. "Candidate Trump campaigned as a populist, then he governed as a royalist," he said.

Claim: "President Obamas budget would call for about $25 trillion in debt by the end of his term, if he was re-elected."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion. The Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026, three years earlier than the projections in its previous report. It’s now $22 trillion and projected to soar to — get this — $33 trillion by fiscal year 2028.

Claim: "Rob Cornilles has been endorsed by 20 local mayors, including Independent, Democratic and Republican."
Evidence Summary: Candidates seem ready to embrace the mantle of reformer. Early voting in the city’s municipal election will on Tuesday. Daley: “The public has expressed over many times, many periods a revulsion to the system that we’ve all been part of.” Mayor Keith Pekau stepped down from the electoral board due to a potential conflict of interest. He is supporting the People Over Politics candidates. The campaign for mayor is about much, much more than one individual or any one episode.

Claim: "Says the state share of Texas public education spending increased 82 percent over the past decade, reaching $20 billion in 2009."
Evidence Summary: Texas added nearly 380,000 people last year – as if the state had added another city the size of Arlington. Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000. But Texas’ growth spurt came at a slower rate than those in previous years, the Austin American-Statesman reported. The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015.

Claim: "In Richmond, Va., theres more moving vans coming in than going out."
Evidence Summary: "They find it's the easiest place to come through. They drive right in and make a left. It's not going to happen," Mr Gonzalez says. "If one of these lorries turns over, anything could happen" The search is for a bearded man, possibly in his 40s, driving a red pickup truck. "It has to encompass all parts of the country," says Mr Gonzalez. "This could be your neighbour. This could be a co-worker." The search for the missing man is expected to last several days.

Claim: "Paul Ryans Medicare plan could raise future retirees costs more than $6,000."
Evidence Summary: One-third of Senate Democrats and more than half of House Democrats have endorsed Medicare-for-all proposals. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services. The popularity is driven by frustration with the current private insurance system, which remains costly on the individual market despite ObamaCare’s goals. But Medicare- for-all is estimated to cost tens of trillions of dollars over a decade, and advocates argue some of this would replace out-of-pocket expenses.

Claim: "On tax inversions, the Wall Street Journalsurprisingly attacked this tax scheme."
Evidence Summary: The president of the United States, Barack Obama, is facing a tough re-election battle. He is expected to win the White House in 2016. Obama has been criticized for not doing enough to fight climate change. The White House says it is working with Congress on a plan to address the issue. It is also working on a bill to make it easier for Americans to file their own tax returns, which would be a boon to the economy. The House of Representatives is considering a bill that would allow Americans to submit their tax returns to the IRS.

Claim: "There are nearly 500,000 registered sex offenders across the country and at any one time about 100,000 are unaccounted for."
Evidence Summary: The number of prisoners serving immediate custodial sentences for sex offences is at its highest level in 17 years. The last inspection of this kind was carried out in 2010. Since then, the number of registered sex offenders has increased from 34,939 to 58,637 in March 2018. The same unclear time frame applies to the president’s number on assaults, which likely stems from the nearly 50,000 people released into ICE custody in 2017 and 2018, who could have committed their crimes years ago.

Claim: "Says under the Affordable Care Act, New Jerseys new (Medicaid) enrollees wont qualify for the matching federal funds simply because we added them onto the rolls before 2014."
Evidence Summary: Sources say the Trump administration is drawing up guidelines on what could be a major overhaul of Medicaid in some states. Instead of the traditional open-ended entitlement, states would get spending limits, along with more flexibility to run the low-income health program. Republicans have sought to rein in Medicaid spending, especially as enrollment swelled under Obamacare’s expansion of the program. The administration wants to let states use waivers to reshape their Medicaid programs, but the effort could face legal challenges in the courts.

Claim: "Says the Obama administration watered down sanctions against Iran, delayed them and tried to stop Congress from putting the tough sanctions in place."
Evidence Summary: U.S. President Donald Trump last year pulled out of an international pact on Iran’s nuclear program and re-imposed sanctions. “The sanctions do put pressure on the country and the people,” Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said. But he promised his audience that the Trump administration was ushering in a new era of U.S.-Iranian relations. He was speaking at a ceremony in Tehran to commemorate an event from the 1979 revolution. He said: "The age of self-inflicted American shame is over"

Claim: "These 60 acres (the Atlanta Braves want to build a stadium on) have produced zero SPLOST money for parks and recreation, have produced zero money for education."
Evidence Summary: Residents of Lincoln Park and Bucktown wanted neither. Sterling Bay pulled those elements from its Lincoln Yards blueprints. Hinsdale High School District 86 Board in 2013 carelessly passed a zero tax levy. Past boards replaced turf and athletic fields while ignoring basic infrastructure like safety and leaking roofs.“I just kind of think that I’d like to imagine a ward and a city where we have new leadership and some better leadership, and it would be a better place,” alderman says.

Claim: Cuyahoga County passed a program to guarantee a college savings account for every single child who enters kindergarten in this county -- the first county in the United States to do so.
Evidence Summary: This small-donor matching system has also spread to other states, cities and municipalities. In the past five years, adoption has spread rapidly to Washington, D.C.; Montgomery and Howard counties in Maryland; and Suffolk County, New York, among other places. New York state lawmakers are currently debating the statewide adoption of such a program. The success holds lessons for not only how to talk about education in America, but how to bridge political divides by reaching out to those who feel left behind.

Claim: "Over half of the young people in medical, dental and law schools are women."
Evidence Summary: About 0.6 percent of the U.S. population – or 1.4 million adults – identifies as transgender. The extent of LGBT education medical students receive varies greatly, but a 2011 study found that the median time spent on LGBT health was five hours. Another major driver of the trend is the steady growth of women entering the fields of science, technology, engineering and math, said Karen Panetta, dean of graduate education at Tufts University's School of Engineering. “I think this is great," added McCaffrey, "but not if 10 years from now, these women are gone"

Claim: "Its legal to sign a recall petition (against Gov. Scott Walker) even if you have already signed another recall petition, but only one signature counts"
Evidence Summary: HB 6595 contains provisions that make it harder to gather signatures that would qualify a proposal for the ballot. No more than 15 percent of the signatures collected can be from any single congressional district. Nothing in the state constitution hints that a voter’s right to sign a petition depends on how many of her neighbors have signed. Brown turned in about 25,000 signatures to get on the ballot, less than the standard of three times the required amount that major candidates for citywide office try to collect.

Claim: "Education funding of $7,176 per student is a historic level."
Evidence Summary: IBHE officials talk wistfully — and a little too much — about the generous state funding they received in 2002. They call that higher ed’s “benchmark year” — as if lawmakers have a way-back machine and billions in spare cash lying around. “We want to reach them all and we want the basic supports that most schools in this country take for granted – or used to– and we ought to be adequately compensated for our work,” said IBHE chairman Tom Cross.

Claim: "Says a new report proves the stimulus supported by N.J. Democrats cost $278,000 per job."
Evidence Summary: The agreement also includes tax credits for employers who hire people with disabilities, with the aim of adding more disabled employees to the workforce. Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a Democrat, said the plan "will put New Jersey in the forefront of the national movement to build a high-wage economy" Assembly Speaker Craig Coughlin said the increase achieves one of his top goals since taking over leadership of the chamber last year. “I have pledged to do all I can to make New Jersey more affordable. By increasing the minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2024 for the majority of workers we are achieving the goal of lifting people up," he said.

Claim: Florida has a law like (Indianas Religious Freedom Restoration Act).
Evidence Summary: Indiana is one of just five states without such a law. The New York State Legislature voted Tuesday to ban so-called gay conversion therapy on minors. Florida’s new governor, Ron DeSantis, garnered national attention for leaving LGBTQ people out of an executive order. Wisconsin, Ohio, Michigan, Kansas and Florida are among 29 states that do not have explicit laws banning employment discrimination based on both sexual orientation and gender identity. In Missouri, Florida and North Dakota there are new bills that would require public high schools to offer Bible-study classes.

Claim: "Obama ""remains silent"" and ""is never asked how he feels about his church honoring Farrakhan."""
Evidence Summary: Tamika Mallory, co-President of the Women's March Inc., was grilled on ABC's "The View" Mallory was asked if she agreed with Minister Farrakhan's statements about Jews and the LGBTQ community. "I don’t agree with these statements, at the end of the day,” she said. Mallory has also supported Farakhan on social media. She was repeatedly asked on national television to clearly condemn him, and she instead dodged the question.

Claim: "When Donald Trump spoke in Phoenix, he looked the audience in the eye and he said no, were building a wall and were deporting everybody. He said, quote, they will all be gone. They will all be gone. This is one of the ones where you can go to the tape on it and see what Donald Trump has said."
Evidence Summary: Trump is expected to argue to the nation Tuesday night that a “crisis” at the U.S.-Mexico border requires the long and invulnerable wall he’s demanding before ending a partial government shutdown. RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel said: "President Trump is committed to fighting for American citizens and our national security. Meanwhile, Democrats are committed to fight President Trump." The video ends with the message: “Tell Democrats It”s Time to Secure the Border”

Claim: "John Edwards never -- has ever from the beginning of his political career has never taken PAC money or the money of Washington lobbyists. Ever. -Joe Trippi, senior campaign adviser"
Evidence Summary: The performance of candidates like former Rep. Beto O’Rourke established the political potency of swearing off super and corporate PACs, although not without some pushback. The challenge is even more direct for candidates who are funding their own campaigns. The 2012 campaign cost a record $7 billion; 2016 cost another $6.5 billion. And the list of outside groups to which money flows grows longer by the day — outside groups like 527 Groups and 501(c)s. Meanwhile, the problems we face go unsolved because of money's corrupting force.

Claim: "When Jeb (Bush) was governor, his first four years as governor, his Medicaid program grew twice as fast as mine."
Evidence Summary: Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state's voters. Janet Mills, Maine’s new Democratic governor, implemented the expansion more than a year after voters approved it in a ballot referendum. The previous governor — Paul LePage, a Republican — had refused to honor the referendum”s result. Former President George W. Bush's health department approved Medicaid spending caps in Rhode Island and Vermont that would have made the states responsible for all costs over defined limits.

Claim: "Unemployment among Oregon high school graduates aged 18 to 20 increased more than 200 percent from 2008 to 2011, while the U.S. average increased only 30 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent. Across metropolitan areas, the percentage of jobs that don't require a bachelor's degree that are good or promising ranges from 35 percent in Spokane, Washington, to 9 percent in Washington, D.C.

Claim: "Hospitals, doctors, MRIs, surgeries and so forth are more extensively used and far more expensive in this country than they are in many other countries.''	health-care	mitt-romney	Former governor	Massachusetts	republican	34	32	58	33	19	a Fox News Sunday interview
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. A single-payer program in line with Sen. Sanders’ “Medicare for All’ proposal would cost $32 trillion in its first 10 years. It would also force Americans to endure many of the same problems plaguing government-run health care models around the world.

Claim: 1287	4611.json	true	Under Governor Almond the RI DMV had a program that allowed undocumented [people to] use their Personal Tax Identification Number . . . to apply [for] and receive a RI drivers license.	civil-rights,homeland-security,immigration,public-safety,transportation,workers	david-quiroa	prresident, Guatemalan-American Alliance of Rhode Island	Rhode Island	newsmaker	0	0	0	0	0	a news release
Evidence Summary: In a dozen states and Washington, D.C., undocumented people can still get a license to drive. But that licensing process may put undocumented people at risk of deportation. In Vermont, migrant dairy farmworkers were targeted for deportation after they obtained drivers licenses, according to a federal lawsuit filed by Migrant Justice. The suit cites documents obtained under the state access to public records law that show the state Department of Motor Vehicles forwarded names, photos, car registrations, and other information on migrant workers to ICE.

Claim: 1292	1638.json	half-true	Marco Rubio controlled funds that out of the $600,000 that were raised, only $4,000 went to candidates to try to improve their chances to be elected to office."""
Evidence Summary: More than 100 Democratic candidates outraised their Republican counterparts in hotly contested congressional races. Increasingly, candidates are turning to the crowd-sourcing of low-dollar donors to fund their campaigns. In 2016, Bernie Sanders' campaign was fueled largely by such grassroots donors. Former Texas Rep. Beto O’Rourke, who lost a Senate campaign in 2016 and is considering a presidential bid, raised more than $80 million, mostly on the strength of small contributions from around the country.

Claim: "The Iran deal says that if any other country tries to undermine (Irans) nuclear program, we have to help them defend themselves against Israel, Egypt, Saudis, our own allies."
Evidence Summary: In theory, no Islamic country is better positioned than Iran to play a leading role in the Middle East. But that potential has been stunted because of Iran’s continued meddling in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Lebanon. Pompeo extolled the Trump administration's actions across the region cementing ties with traditional, albeit authoritarian, friendly governments. “I think the best we can hope for is not to get into a war,” he said, setting a low if tragically realistic bar.

Claim: "Rick Scotts Administration spent over $100,000 of taxpayer money during their first voter purge attempt in 2012."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials. A political group in one town spent hundreds of dollars on booze. In another town, a mayor’s campaign fund paid thousands of dollars to a village employee.Historically, the states most dependent on federal funds (“takers”) tend to vote Republican.

Claim: The Agriculture Department estimates that roughly 42 percent of the corn crop will be used to make ethanol -- more than the amount of corn used to feed livestock and poultry in the United States.
Evidence Summary: Ethanol makers slashed production rates last year due in part to negative profit margins. Cargill Inc., the largest privately-held U.S. company, cited "historically low ethanol prices" as one of the reasons one of its segments posted lower quarterly earnings from a year ago. The government shutdown that Trump says could last "a long time" without funding for a border wall may hurt farmers by delaying the approval for year-round sales of a 15 percent ethanol blend for gasoline.

Claim: "In 1913, it was legal to mail children."
Evidence Summary: Thousands of requests by men to bring in child and adolescent brides to live in the U.S. were approved over the past decade. The approvals are legal: The Immigration and Nationality Act does not set minimum age requirements. "I felt quite low by the time I got to page 5 of Friday’s paper! I will hug my own children especially tightly next Sunday," says one reader. "Maybe two, three years from now, foreign workers can bring in their families," says another.

Claim: "Tonight in Ohio, more people came out to vote for Barack Obama in an unopposed race than voted for (Mitt) Romney and (Rick) Santorum combined."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote an op-ed criticizing President Trump in the Washington Post. Richie Duchon faced Romney in the 2012 primary, and he won. He says the margin by which President Trump would beat Romney in a four-way 2020 Republican Primary if it were held today would be 72-9. Duch on Romney: "He is a smart, competitive, serious man who genuinely wants America to succeed. He is a good man" He says Romney is right to say that Trump has not risen to the mantle of the office.

Claim: "Democrats compare the infrastructure programs in the stimulus to the Eisenhower interstate program, ""but he proposed a $500 billion highway system, and they're going to put $30 billion"" into roads and bridges."
Evidence Summary: The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) is encouraged that both President Trump and the new House majority have signaled that infrastructure is an area for bipartisanship. The first step Congress and the Trump administration should take is to address three major infrastructure priorities at the federal level. At $1 trillion it’s a blueprint of Trumpian proportions. Democrats already gained in the midterm all the voters they need to win in 2020 opening up a 7 point lead – the trick is to keep them.

Claim: Congressman (Tom) Cotton is the only Arkansan in Congress -- Democrat or Republican -- to vote against disaster relief five times.
Evidence Summary: The Senate narrowly rejected Democratic-led efforts to block the Trump administration from lifting sanctions on Russian companies controlled by oligarch Oleg Deripaska. The procedural vote to move forward on the resolution failed 57-42, just three votes short of the 60 needed to proceed. The same eleven GOP senators voted alongside all Democrats present to proceed to the resolution on Tuesday, allowing debate on the measure to begin. "I think he's a bad guy and he's still in working control," Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., said after the vote.

Claim: "U.S. Reps. Eric Cantor and Luis Gutierrez were touring the country last year joined at the hip, working together in a bipartisan fashion indeed for the goal of immigration reform."
Evidence Summary: In between accusations and name calling, some lawmakers have nurtured bipartisanship. From early morning circuit training to houseboat cruises on the Potomac River, lawmakers continue to hang out together. "Bipartisan friendships are an important step in the right direction, but are not enough to reach a compromise when party leadership are sending a different signal,” said Carolyn J. Lukensmeyer, executive director emerita of the National Institute for Civil Discourse. The partial government shutdown entered its 31st day on Monday with no obvious solution in sight.

Claim: "Congressman Ryan has secured a grand total of $116,838,763 to date (for the Mahoning Valley) and has an additional $27,095,000 pending in FY2010 spending bills."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who led a largely centrist coalition against Pelosi's speakership, announced his opposition Wednesday. Four other House Republicans – Rodney Davis of Illinois, Peter King of New York, Christopher Smith of New Jersey and Steve Stivers of Ohio – voted for some of the outstanding spending bills. The group also includes lawmakers like New York Rep. Elise Stefanik, who has been a rising star in the GOP; Oregon Rep. Greg Walden who represents a district that Trump won by 19 percentage points.

Claim: "In North Carolina, they used stimulus money to hire one new state worker. His job, apply for more stimulus funds from the taxpayers by the way of the federal government."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation. He offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. Republicans remain obsessed with former secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email system, insisting Team Clinton was not only stupid and careless (it was), but also criminal (despite the Justice Department concluding it wasn’t) As an added benefit, we’ll get to hear nonsensical GOP explanations of why its views on “makers” and “takers” were never intended to apply to incompetently-run Republican states.

Claim: "If Sen. Hillary Clinton could enact all of her campaign proposals, taxpayers would be faced with financing more than $777.6-billion in new spending over one White House term."
Evidence Summary: The incoming Democrat majority in the House is making a so-called “reform’ package their first legislative priority in the new Congress. The bill consists of speech-stifling regulations under the guise of campaign finance reform. It should be noted that this effort has a zero percent chance of passing the Senate, much less being signed into law. The Democrat campaign finance plan dusts off their decades-old dream for the public financing of political campaigns. This excessive spending could go a long way toward paying for a border wall and enhanced border security.

Claim: "Dan Gecker voted to double vehicle registration fees, costing (Chesterfield) county residents over $6 million annually."
Evidence Summary: Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has proposed an increase of 30 cents per gallon to one of the nation’s highest gas taxes. State Reps. Allen Skillicorn and Jeanne Ives hosted a rally Jan. 7 to oppose increasing the state motor fuel tax. “The worst-kept secret in Springfield is a rumored massive gasoline and diesel tax hike. Just when gas prices are finally falling, and little more than a year after income taxes were hiked 32 percent, greedy politicians seem all too willing to take more of our hard-earned money,” Skillicorns said.

Claim: "A lot of people don't know that 50,000 Americans now make their living off eBay."
Evidence Summary: “We’re not going to stop and just say, ‘Oh this is a cost of doing business’” “People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many of thosePeople agree 100 percent with what I’m doing." “Ebay sellers are like sitting ducks waiting to be scammed.’ “ “The government really needs to get together and work this out.”

Claim: "The working tax cut created over 40,000 new jobs in just the last four years."
Evidence Summary: Thanks to this administration’s pro-growth policies, over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. Communities across the country have felt the impact of our stronger economy. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows. The US has experienced 99 months of consecutive jobs growth and a slowdown seems inevitable.

Claim: I played in a game here against the Pittsburgh Steelers where there was 23 inches of snow. We played in at least 15 inches of that.
Evidence Summary: Snow stopped falling at 11:30 a.m. Saturday and plowing operations stopped at 4:30 p.m., village official says. Northbrook police reported 10 vehicle damage accidents as a result of the snow, but no injuries were reported. The heavy snows and weather-related incidents have resulted in the deaths of more than two dozen people, including a 9-year-old boy who was killed by a falling tree in the town of Aying near Munich. The German meteorological service DWD said Wednesday that the amount of snowfall in the Alps recently was unusual, but not exceptional, according to the Associated Press.

Claim: "In 2006, Donald Trump was hoping for a real estate crash."
Evidence Summary: Trump claims he predicted that if the Democrats were to take over the House that there would be "disruption to the Financial Markets" "They only want to impeach me because they know they can't win in 2020, too much success!" he tweeted. In another tweet, Trump boasted about the stock market and warned: “You want to see a Stock Market Crash, Impeach Trump!” The Economy is one of the best in our history, with unemployment at a 50 year low, and the Stock Market ready to again break a record.

Claim: "The Kenosha casino would be one of the states largest employers and pay more to the state than any other company or Tribe essentially, it would be Wisconsins biggest taxpayer."
Evidence Summary: Rahm Emanuel is trying to put a casino in Chicago as part of his plan to salvage city pensions. Emanuel wants legislative approval for a gambling house that would deliver new revenue. The question for many lawmakers will be whether City Hall should be involved in regulating a casino owned by City Hall. We’ve long argued that letting Chicago regulate Chicago would be preposterous. The bill could deliver Gary from the financial abyss it’s staring at, if its provisions hold, if it passes.

Claim: Our race was the closest U.S. Senate race in Ohio in 36 years -- when Howard Metzenbaum defeated Robert Taft in 1976.
Evidence Summary: Brown served as Ohio's secretary of state in the 1980s and was then elected to Congress in 1992. He represented the Cleveland suburbs in the House until he was elected to the Senate in 2006. After winning re-election last year in a state that President Trump carried amid other GOP statewide victories, chatter of a possible Brown presidential bid began to bubble up. "I didn't grow up aspiring to be president of the United States," Brown told NPR shortly after the 2018 midterm elections. "My dream was to play center field for the Cleveland Indians, and I think that door is closed"

Claim: "We have drawn down to presurge levels. Basra, Mosul and now Sadr City are quiet and it's long and it's tough and there will be setbacks."
Evidence Summary: There's an ongoing push here among some political parties to get rid of the U.S. troops in Iraq. But at the same time, Iraq needs those troops, and it's trying to balance relations with Iran. It's not clear if the order has been given to troops to not pull out because they had been ordered to pull out. “We wanted to reflect a curiosity in other cultures – to be a bridge after Iraq has been isolated for so long … to make a connection,” says Attrachi.

Claim: "Says Austins treated wastewater, put into the Colorado River, is of higher quality than water the city takes from the lake for public use."
Evidence Summary: An article on Thursday about the E.P.A.’s shutdown furlough of most inspection personnel described incorrectly Angela McFadden's role at the Environmental Protection Agency. She is an environmental engineer who works for an agency program that oversees state-issued permits for the discharge of pollution in rivers and streams. An article also suggested that problems with chlorine levels in water are especially common in rural West Virginia. An engineer with the MWRD, Fitzpatrick has been in the job long enough that he no longer notices that the whole building smells like hydrogen sulfide.

Claim: "An amendment to the House health reform bill ""puts new restrictions on women's access to abortion coverage in the private health insurance market even when they would pay premiums with their own money."""
Evidence Summary: California Attorney General Xavier Becerra applauds the ruling. The Women's Health Amendment is the provision of the ACA that requires employer-provided health insurance to include coverage for free or low-cost birth control. A judge blocked the change from going into effect Monday while a challenge from Democratic attorneys general proceeds. The administration is close to finalizing changes to the federal grant program that supports family planning services to low-income women. Another change would require insurance companies that offer plans through the health exchanges covered by the Affordable Care Act to bill separately the portion of a premium that covers most abortion services.

Claim: "As president, Barack Obama has never visited Israel."
Evidence Summary: Pompeo said little about the peace process and made no mention of a two-state solution. The secretary did not mention Obama by name but the remarks still struck listeners in the U.S. as unusually partisan. "It's a speech shocking for its use of domestic politics," said Heather Hurlburt, an analyst with the New America, a nonpartisan think tank. Pompeo's speech came on the third leg of a nine-nation Mideast tour aimed at reassuring America's Arab partners that the Trump administration is not walking away from the region.

Claim: "Between 2010 and 2014, there was no net in-migration from Mexico."
Evidence Summary: The study also finds that the undocumented population from Mexico fell by almost 400,000 people in 2017. Since 2010 the number of undocumented from that country fell by 1.3 million. "We have made tremendous progress since the year 2000 in reducing undocumented immigration into this country," the study's author, Robert Warren, told NPR. The numbers appear to be correct, albeit cherry-picked. They also require context: Traffic dropped 92 percent there over 23 years amid a border-wide trend of fewer border crossings.

Claim: "A shocking 20 veterans are committing suicide each and every day, especially our older veterans."
Evidence Summary: The Veterans Crisis Line helps about 2,000 callers every day. Tragically, an average of 20 veterans die by suicide each day. The suicide rate among female veterans was 1.8 times higher than non-veteran women in 2016. The Union Veterans Council, on behalf of its federal employee members on Monday, issued a rebuke to Wilkie. “This is an outrageous attempt to distract from the very serious crisis that tens of thousands of veterans have been hurled into with no end in sight,” said the group's executive director.

Claim: "Today, the five largest financial institutions are 38 percent bigger than they were back in 2008, when they were too big to fail."
Evidence Summary: The debt markets are undergoing a healthy and much-needed correction that is slowly eliminating a decade of reckless euphoria. In 2019, growth is projected to slow but still remain above 2 percent. The economy’s continued health will hinge on whether big Wall Street banks can withstand shocks caused by these or other threats and continue lending. The key question now is whether a bubble in a different corner of the debt market could trigger a market panic. “A quote wrongly attributed to Mark Twain fits here: history rarely repeats, but it does rhyme,” said Rasheed Saleuddin, a research associate at the University of Cambridge.

Claim: "The House did vote against engagement in Kosovo, and Bill Clinton kept fighting anyway. And, then, ultimately, a vote did pass."
Evidence Summary: In 1995, the government had similar dilemmas with different players. Bill Clinton: Congress has failed to pass straightforward legislation necessary to keep the government running. In 1995, Bush, sailing unanimously through a Senate Judiciary Committee controlled by Democrats, won approval by a voice vote on the floor. "He was elected by the American people as president to carry out border security and build a wall," Scalise said. "It was part of the national debate. I know some people on your side don't even want to recognize that that election occurred and the result"

Claim: "Every time weve increased the minimum wage, weve seen a growth in jobs."
Evidence Summary: Since Trump's election, more than five million net new jobs have been created, driving the unemployment rate down near a half-century low. The labor market has been so strong that it has drawn millions of people back into the workforce. Small businesses account for two-thirds of new job creation, so the booming labor market is also a reflection of their strength. In a 180-degree shift, within a few months after President Trump took office, we went from an economy where the biggest problem was workers being unable to find good paying jobs.

Claim: "Florida has 1,200 golf courses. I think 58 million rounds played a year in Florida. Weve got 44 percent of all travel golf in the country here. 5 million people come here just for golf."
Evidence Summary: The Everglades are the largest subtropical wilderness left in the United States. They are imperiled by pollution, toxic algae blooms, disrupted water flow and politicians who favor big industries like sugar. The new governor of Florida, Ron DeSantis, announced surprising plans for big environmental reforms earlier this month, without mentioning climate change. Many people I spoke to in the Everglade didn’t want to talk about climate change because they considered it too political. There are more than 34 million sportsmen and women in the U.S.

Claim: "Inflation-adjusted defense spending has declined 21 percent since 2010, and even if we discount the drawdowns in Iraq and Afghanistan, it has still declined by a dangerous 12 percent."
Evidence Summary: Pentagon confirms it is pushing ahead with President Trump's controversial Syria drawdown. The abrupt pull out of some 2,000 uniformed forces had sparked fears in the region and bipartisan outrage in Washington. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo rejected concerns the U.S. was shrinking from the fight against ISIS or its friends. The federal government missed its first paycheck Friday as the partial government shutdown barrels into its fourth week. It would be easy to dismiss President Trump’s decision to begin withdrawing from Afghanistan as simply a political decision.

Claim: The two worst counties for (Medicaid) fraud in the country -- not state -- are Dade and Broward county.
Evidence Summary: Davidsmeyer said he co-sponsored the legislation to spark a discussion about how the city's politics impact rural residents in downstate Illinois. "I don't believe that Chicago and the state of Illinois should be separated. Our relationship is mutually beneficial," Davidsmeyer told the State Journal-Register. "The city of Chicago is competing with New York City and L.A. and San Francisco, and (downstate is) competing against rural Indiana and rural Missouri," he said.

Claim: "Fireworks have never been safer, and their use continues to increase each year."
Evidence Summary: "Policing through the ages has changed but the danger has not. These heroes deserve our support and respect" "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public" "Always, always keep our nation safe from threats old and new" "We will never give up on the fight against terrorism and cyber warfare" "This is a time of celebration and celebration for all of us" "Let's hope this is the beginning of a new era of peace and prosperity" "It's a time to celebrate and to celebrate together"

Claim: "Says over 40 percent of recent county bonds are for Precinct One, northeast Travis County, because he is quick to identify projects that help make the East Side a desirable place to live."
Evidence Summary: Trump's signature legislative accomplishment, a sweeping new federal tax bill that cuts taxes across the board, most for the super wealthy, was cited almost universally as the most important work the president has done since taking office. Roberts county, in the panhandle, goes some way to show the extent of unwavering support that remains among Trump’s base. “I like that he tells you right out front what he likes, what he doesn’t like,” Rick Tennant, Roberts county judge, says of Trump.

Claim: "Says the Department of Homeland Security has ordered enough rounds of .40 caliber ammunition to kill every man, woman and child in the United States, possibly to combat massive civil unrest or an invasion by a foreign power."
Evidence Summary: "What kind of maniacs are running this country? pic.twitter.com/0glVs2ee25 — Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) December 31, 2018The original tweet pointed to the Times Square ball-drop tradition and said “if ever needed, we are #ready to drop something much, much bigger.” The tweet included a video of a B-2 stealth bomber releasing two GPS-guided bombs. The sleek video includes pulsing music and the words “STEALTH,’ “READY,” and “LETHAL” flash across the screen.

Claim: "If a President Romney got a call from the president of the (Mormon church), he has no choice but to obey. It is obedience over family and country."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has never sat behind the resolute desk in the Oval Office and he never will. He needs to start representing the people of Utah by solving problems alongside President Trump. His op-ed was a shallow political miscalculation and a pathetic attempt to be the center of attention. It appears Romney would rather bathe in the Washington swamp that has made him so comfortable for so long instead of taking on the failed status quo. Romney is just days away from being sworn in as a junior senator in Utah. The former Massachusetts governor has flip-flopped on his support for Trump in the past.

Claim: Under Gov. Rick Perrys leadership [Texas] has created more jobs over the last decade than the rest of the states combined.
Evidence Summary: Texas added 379,128 new residents from July 2017 to July 2018, according to U.S. census data. Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000 people, the data show. In percentage terms, Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. Illinois, meanwhile, lost population for the fifth consecutive year. But new Gov. J.B. Pritzker set the marker Monday: Make Illinois the fastest-growing big state economy.

Claim: "Blue Cross new $90-million Providence headquarters ""was outfitted with $25 million in decor."""
Evidence Summary: Last May, a task force convened by Rauner issued a report that recommended the home be rebuilt — an undertaking that would cost more than $200 million. Another article detailed how a hospital vice president was given a stake of nearly $1.4 million in a newly public company as compensation for representing Memorial Sloan Kettering on its board. The build-out, which will integrate the building’s historic façade with modern glass design, is a project by New York-based developer Thor Equities.

Claim: "Nationally, the unemployment rate for veterans is far greater than the national unemployment rate, and Wisconsin is one of those rare examples where unemployment is actually lower for veterans than it is for the population as a whole and certainly lower than it is nationally."
Evidence Summary: An estimated one-third of the federal workforce is made up of veterans. More than 250,000 veterans are not currently receiving paychecks. "Financial instability is one of the main cause of suicides among the veterans’ community," the Union Veterans Council said. "While it’s great to see the official unemployment rate at 3.9 percent, this figure doesn’t tell the full story," said Marie Trzupek Lynch, chief executive officer at Skills for Chicagoland’S Future.

Claim: "Under Pat McCrory, (North Carolina) has fallen to 41st in teacher pay."
Evidence Summary: Gary Teachers’ Union and state American Federation of Teachers President GlenEva Dunham said raising teacher pay needed to come from the state directly. School districts “are not good at shuffling money and when they shuffle money, we don’t get it,” Dunham said. Holcomb and Republican legislative leaders have talked about the importance of finding ways to address Indiana’s lagging teacher salaries. But the governor last week proposed just a 2 percent funding increase for public schools each of the next two years.

Claim: "More than 27,000 Rhode Island jobs depend on trade with Canada."
Evidence Summary: The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers’ claims jumped. Oil prices climbed Friday as concerns over global oversupply receded. The number of inbound cargo shipments through the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach rose 19.2% in December. The U.S. economy is expected to grow by 2.7% this year, up from 2.4% in 2013. The economy is projected to grow 1.9% in 2014, down from 1.8% last year.

Claim: "I have had to fill out FEC reports for the past six years now, and theyre much more detailed than a tax return..."
Evidence Summary: Filing returns is the most direct way millions of Americans interact with the federal government. Lawmakers have long been reluctant to mess with people’s refunds for fear of riling a vast swath of middle-class voters. "It was always going to be a stretch for a very stretched IRS" to deal with this filing season, said former Commissioner of Internal Revenue Steven Miller. "This can't help," he said of the shutdown's impact on the IRS. "You have extraordinarily angry and very upset taxpayers.”

Claim: Says Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen knew about (the Ken Kratz sexting) case for nearly a year and did nothing about it.
Evidence Summary: “James Snyder does not think rules apply to him,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney Jill Koster. Defense attorney Jackie Bennett Jr. said the allegations in the indictment seem straightforward, but are false. Details of Jayme's three-month captivity have not been released, and Barron County Sheriff Chris Fitzgerald has not said whether Jayme was sexually assaulted. The former security chief told the Tribune he had no idea who put the political materials inside the vehicle but thought Preckwinkle unfairly ousted him to protect her political ambitions.

Claim: "He leant his name to a bill, did little or nothing three years ago to try to get it passed, (and) since then has done absolutely nothing other than disavow any attempt to move on the legislation."
Evidence Summary: Trump spent 12 years in Congress without passing a single piece of legislation. He has since stepped back from frontline politics and made few public comments on what has happened since then. Instead of delivering a new speech, he chose instead to go through the motions by making much the same one he had given when announcing the government’s immigration policy several weeks previously. Only he managed to do it worse. When he comes to look back on today, The Saj will be grateful so few MPs were there to witness his performance.

Claim: "An Environmental Protection Agency regulation that goes into effect Jan. 1, 2012, regulates dust."
Evidence Summary: TfL, which commissioned the report, expanded cleaning regimes on the system in 2017 through the use of industrial vacuums and "magnetic wands" Federal regulations for silica dust in coal mines haven't changed in decades, even as mining has changed. A call for congressional hearings on the epidemic of advanced black lung disease and the regulatory failures cited by the NPR/Frontline investigation. The documentary Coal's Deadly Dust will air on PBS on Jan. 22, 2019, at 8 p.m. ET.

Claim: "In Massachusetts, Scott Browns Republican affiliation is not a secret, but clearly not on display."
Evidence Summary: As the lone black Republican in the Senate, Tim Scott is increasingly emerging as a crucial voice for his party on issues of race. Scott, 53, didn’t sign up to be the racial conscience of the Republican Party. He actively sought to avoid it during his campaigns in a state with long and deep tensions. But almost by default, Scott has become that person — in part because of his status as one of just two black Republicans in Congress and because, as he observes, few others in the party have stepped up.

Claim: "John McCain's top foreign policy adviser lobbied for... the Republic of Georgia, and McCain has mirrored the position advocated by the government."
Evidence Summary: Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham says a U.S. withdrawal from Syria without a plan would lead to chaos and an "Iraq on steroids" Graham spoke to reporters in the Turkish capital Ankara on Saturday, a day after meeting with Turkish officials. Graham: "I’m going to make a decision by the end of March. It’s going to be grounded in, ‘Am I the right person? Is it the right job, and is now the right time?”

Claim: "Every month since 9/11, there have been as many suicide attacks against the United States and its allies as there were in all the years leading up to 9/11."
Evidence Summary: David Rothkopf: 9/11 led U.S. to abandon its ideals, particularly in the Middle East. He says the results of these misjudgments have been dire. Having troops on the ground in permanent wars overseas does nothing to prevent terrorists from attacking us here, he says. Rothkapf: The only thing we accomplish by refusing to withdraw from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan is to dissipate our troops’ ability to defend against potentially existential threats that could arise elsewhere.

Claim: Two thirds of the people in Wisconsin strongly disagree with this idea of permanently taking away peoples rights to collective bargaining.
Evidence Summary: The bill, HB 6595, severely curtails direct democracy in Michigan. It disproportionately disenfranchises minority voters. It should be struck down as soon as the state’s judiciary has the chance. A similar bill by Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin would entitle workers to elect one-third of the seats in the state legislature. It would also allow workers to strike, which is illegal in the U.S. under current law. It's a flawed system that's why people are paying such high property taxes and business taxes.

Claim: "As far as standing committees, we have 10 fewer standing committees. So weve saved the state about a quarter-of-a-million dollars through the reduction of the standing committees."
Evidence Summary: Legislative Committee Chairman John Wasik, a District 6 board member, called it, “The most important thing in the whole package.” District 5 commissioner Judy Martini said she hoped the Lake County Forest Preserves would also look at the situation involving presidents of the district. “I’m working with state representatives to pressure Gov.-elect J.B. Pritzker to put together a progressive income tax at the state level,” she said. The current board will study priority-based budgeting.

Claim: "(Obamas) entire national security team, including his secretary of state, said we want to arm and train and equip (Syrian rebel forces), and he made the unilateral decision to turn them down."
Evidence Summary: President Obama failed to carry out his promise to punish the Syrian regime. As a political decision, he was able to claim that keeping out of the fight was correct. But on a humanitarian level, how many hundreds of people were killed by Assad's forces? The U.S. decision to withdraw its 2,200 troops from Syria could lead to an ISIS resurgence, Pompeo says. The previous administration "grossly underestimated the tenacity and the viciousness of radical Islamism," he says.

Claim: "Governor-elect Scott Walkers opposition to high-speed rail killed 13,000 Wisconsin jobs"
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide.

Claim: "The Trans-Pacific Partnership knocks out 18,000 tariffs that other countries place on American products and goods."
Evidence Summary: On the campaign trail, then Republican candidate Donald Trump regularly railed against the TPP trade deal. The TPP would have brought together the economies of 12 countries, allowing for free trade of everything from agriculture to pharmaceuticals. Despite the United States abandoning this pact, the deal has now gone into effect, and it's giving the 11 member-countries a competitive edge. Noel King talks to Matthew Goodman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies about the implementation of the landmark trade deal once known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

Claim: Tommy Thompson wanted to implant data chips in humans.
Evidence Summary: Police first detained Sutherland on Tuesday when investigators determined his DNA matched that of the baby. Sutherland, who had been assigned to care for the woman at the time of the assault, has not spoken with investigators, a police spokesman said. "We have no indication that there were other people involved, but again, this is an ongoing investigation," he said. Holmes hoped her technology could make Theranos the Apple of health care, former employees and insiders say. The ability do to a large number of laboratory tests from a small amount of blood would revolutionize health care.

Claim: "Because of the health care law, by 2017, we will be funneling over $100 billion annually to private insurance companies."
Evidence Summary: ‘This is the new theme, for two years until the Wall is finished (under construction now), of the Republican Party. Use it and pray!’ Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. Two minutes later, the president tweeted: ‘BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!” ‘Americans like the idea of ‘Medicare-for-all,’ but support flips to disapproval if it would result in higher taxes or longer waits for care.’ ‘About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago.”

Claim: "Says Walmart employees represent the largest group of Medicaid and food stamp recipients in many states, costing the taxpayer $1,000 per worker."
Evidence Summary: In fiscal year 2017, SNAP participants redeemed $63 billion in SNAP benefits for food purchases at about 260,000 retailers. The money spent by SNAP beneficiaries is typically split between small business owners, like Powell, and major retailers, like Walmart. More than a million low-income Georgians could lose their benefits in February, the Atlanta Journal Constitution reported Thursday. When the benefit cut occurred in 2013, chains like Walmart and Target cut their earnings forecasts. Dollar General stockholders claim in a lawsuit the firm had failed to notify them how badly business would be harmed by other SNAP reductions.

Claim: "Oregon today has 100,000 more jobs than it did when I was elected."
Evidence Summary: Over 4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump took office, with the lowest unemployment in half a century. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Obama, who was elected in the teeth of the worst recession in living memory, added 10m jobs. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’

Claim: "In the U.S. Senate, Barack Obama ""has not reached across party lines to get anything significant done."""
Evidence Summary: Mitch McConnell has been incredible,” he said, referring to the Senate majority leader. The president, who has refused to sign any bill to fund the government that does not include $5.7 billion for the wall, also said some Democrats were moving to his point of view. “If I did something that was foolish, like gave up on border security, the first ones that would hit me would be my senators — they’d be angry at me,’ he said.

Claim: "While the United States has seen its unemployment rate steadily decline, New Jerseys remains nearly two percent higher than the national average and more than a point higher than Connecticut and New York."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The unemployment rate rose to 3.9%, but only because more people entered the workforce. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. Even wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains.

Claim: "In 31 states, decent child care costs more than college tuition."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. Department of Agriculture found that middle-income, married parents of a child born in 2015 could expect to spend $233,610 on food, housing, and other necessities to raise that child through age 17. Full-time childcare in a daycare center for a child between birth and 4 years old costs more, on average, than in-state college tuition, according to a 2016 Care Index report. "The rest of the industrialized world ... understands that supporting families and having children be raised in healthy environments is for the benefit of all of us," Collins said.

Claim: "Says someone earning $50,000 a year will fare better under his 9-9-9 plan than under the current tax system."
Evidence Summary: O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," she said. Walker failed on both counts when he tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize the congresswoman’s proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million. Ocasio-Cortez floated the idea of tax rates as high as 70 percent on the ultra-rich.

Claim: "Says the Internal Revenue Service estimated it must hire 16,500 agents at a cost of $10 billion to the taxpayer to enforce the federal health care overhaul."
Evidence Summary: The longest-ever U.S. government shutdown is posing new risks to the Affordable Care Act and some health services. Democrats say the impasse could harm consumers and undermine the stability of the individual insurance market. Ongoing staffing shortages at the Internal Revenue Service could lead to higher premiums for some consumers who need tax credits to help pay their health-insurance premiums, Democrats say. "With 800,000 employees out there, I imagine that this is not a one-off event," says Dan Blair, who served as both acting director and deputy director of the federal Office of Personnel Management.

Claim: "There are at least three sectors of the border, one in particular, that are just completely insecure."
Evidence Summary: "The American people and the public need to start asking some really important, tough questions," Hannity says. "The most vulnerable point of entry that we have into this country is the southern border" "It is, I think, a monument to division," he says of fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border. "It has to encompass all parts of the country’s" border, he adds. "I'm a lifelong resident, it always was there. But the bigger and taller they get, they just become symbols"

Claim: "We have at least 200,000 to 300,000 hate crimes in a given year."
Evidence Summary: Steuerwald said his aim was to have a law that doesn't exclude anyone. He said his research found nearly three dozen protected groups included among hate crime laws in other states. The latest FBI report found a 17 percent spike in hate crimes in 2017 compared to the previous year. Victims targeted due to their sexual orientation or gender identity comprised 1,470 — or nearly 17 percent of all hate-crime victims. The Human Rights Campaign said they were delayed in identifying Martin, because Alabama officials initially misgendered her in reports of her death.

Claim: Says critics called the original GI Bill welfare.
Evidence Summary: For-profit colleges often failed to deliver on their promises to students and fueled a massive increase in student loan defaults. This is why the Obama-era pilot programs included quality guardrails. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence, with healthcare, a pension and paid time off. President Trump signed into law the second of two bills meant to hold the Department of Veterans Affairs accountable for an IT failure that delayed payments under the Forever GI Bill.

Claim: The top 1 percent (of income earners) paid 36.7 percent (of the taxes). ... The top 50 percent pay 97.7 percent.
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez's suggestion of a 70% rate for those earning more than $10m would mean very few people outside of FTSE 100 chief executives and hedge fund bosses would pay such a rate. During most of the 1950s, when the U.S. economy dominated the world, the top rate was 91%. It kicked in at $400,000 of taxable income, or roughly $3.7 million in today’s dollars. The most affluent 1 percent paid a far lower average rate of 30.5 percent, according to a Tax Policy Center analysis.

Claim: Says Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker doesnt make his calendar public -- hes on our dime and we dont know where he is.
Evidence Summary: Walker, suffering defeat for the first time since a 1990 run for state Assembly, plans to hit the road as a speaker advocating for conservative issues. Trump narrowly carried the state in 2016 and it will likely be a key part of any roadmap to victory in 2020. Walker also won't rule out a future run for U.S. Senate or even governor again in 2022. Regardless of what Walker does next, he leaves the governor's office having fundamentally altered the state.. "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate.

Claim: "PWNED: House GOP Dominates Twitter, YouTube, Social Media in Congress."
Evidence Summary: Members of Congress rely upon their staff to curate their brands on Twitter. The Supreme Court recognized in 2017 that social media is now “the most important’ modern forum “for the exchange of views” The lesson comes as a generational divide between members of Congress and the tech platforms they oversee has been on full display. The House Democratic Policy and Communications Committee is hosting a session Thursday morning with Ocasio-Cortez and Jim Himes on the importance of digital storytelling.

Claim: "Americans ""have never paid more for gas at the pump."""
Evidence Summary: An oversupply of oil on the world market has triggered a steady slide in gas prices. Nationally, regular was averaging around $2.25 per gallon at the start of January. That's the lowest price for this time of year since 2016, according to AAA. Experts said Trump can take some credit for the increased supply of gas that has driven prices lower. But fuel economics is a hugely complex subject, impacted by many variables, they said.. A price-tracking service says the national average for gasoline will surge to about $3 a gallon by May before easing the rest of 2019.

Claim: "Says that if Texas, California and New York all voted for Democratic presidential nominees, it would be mathematically impossible for Republicans to elect a president."
Evidence Summary: "I think electing Republicans is better than electing Democrats," said Rep. David Lewis, a Republican member of the North Carolina General Assembly in 2016. "I propose that we draw the maps to give a partisan advantage to 10 Republicans and three Democrats," he said. When voters went to the polls that fall, the 10-3 outcome was exactly as Lewis had predicted, even though Republican candidates won just 53 percent of the statewide vote. Despite Ocasio-Cortez’s assertion that her flavor of socialism is more inspired by Sweden than Venezuela, mainstream Americans probably would rather not take the risk.

Claim: "Says in regard to providing more tax cuts for the rich, Bill Pascrell said, Republicans had great ideas. I liked some of their ideas."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy over who does and doesn’t understand how America’s tax system works. What has been lost in the dust-up is that the wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, took us in exactly the wrong direction. It radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations, at a cost of $1.9 trillion over 10 years.

Claim: "John McCain ""voted against the Bush tax cuts, both times."""
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney's op-ed piece about Donald Trump was widely panned. But he got a shoutout from departing Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz) and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) He also got praise from Sen. John McCain, who has been critical of Trump. Romney is 71, has two failed presidential campaigns, has a history of flip-flopping on a wide variety of issues, and yet... no one in political media is saying he needs to be quiet.

Claim: "The average student debt coming out of the University of Wisconsin-Madison is something like 28,000 dollars."
Evidence Summary: Washington already owns or guarantees $1.4 trillion in student loan debt to nearly 43 million borrowers. Students are regularly taking more than four years to graduate. The federal government, wittingly or not, has helped make universities' tuition hikes possible by subsidizing student debt. Just 59 percent of Americans finish a bachelor's degree program within six years at a public institution, and non-graduates are three times as likely to default. But a four-figure student loan could still haunt them for decades, in the form of lower wages once their payments are deducted.

Claim: FACT: the special assistant in @johnkasichs office makes over three times more than an average #OH firefighter
Evidence Summary: The Crown Point City Council honored firefighters and police officers for their roles in an apartment building fire that injured three in October. Two Prince George’s County firefighters are temporarily banned from responding to emergency calls while officials investigate a contentious exchange at the scene of a December house fire. A fight about water between two Prince George's County fire crews led to the suspension of two firefighters and may have thrust into the spotlight a longtime rivalry between career and volunteer firefighters. The incident occurred between Engine 826b – mostly made up of career firefighters – and Engine 833 – an all-volunteer department.

Claim: "Obama's wife said her goal in life was to put the black community ""first and foremost."""
Evidence Summary: As a candidate, Obama demonstrated both the ability to speak about race and the skill to evade it. As president, Obama often chose race-neutral language while pressing for health care, criminal justice and immigration reform. He faced criticism both from those who said he was doing more for black Americans than for anyone else and those who say he was not doing enough. “I think [black voter] expectations for Obama were somewhat tempered,” Moore said, “until he came out in favor of the gay marriage issue.”

Claim: "Says state Sen. Randy Hopper, R-Fond du Lac, unlike typical taxpayers, didnt pay taxes"
Evidence Summary: DuPage County Clerk Jean Kaczmarek is concerned with the new administration’s top priorities, one of which is a progressive income tax. “The worst-kept secret in Springfield is a rumored massive gasoline and diesel tax hike. Just when gas prices are finally falling, and little more than a year after income taxes were hiked 32 percent, greedy politicians seem all too willing to take more of our hard-earned money,” Skillicorn said. Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker failed on both counts Tuesday when he tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.

Claim: "New school testing standards will consume approximately twenty days of testing for elementary, middle and high school students."
Evidence Summary: Students need a break to study for finals, say parents who oppose the calendar change. No one from the public addressed the Board of Education Jan. 14 before Riggle presented the results of the survey. District administrators recommend a practice run of remote learning take place on April 9 and 10. On April 10, freshmen and sophomores will come to school to take the PSAT and juniors and seniors would stay home and complete lessons remotely, which the district is calling an eLearning day.

Claim: "Wisconsin is not as obese as the national average is. The national average, 35.7 percent of the population is obese. In Wisconsin, its closer to 26 percent."
Evidence Summary: The discovery of the obesity-cancer link is too new to have led to big policy changes, experts say. Michigan’s health department was already treating obesity as a public health issue. State policies, including those that promote healthy eating and physical activity at schools and childcare centers, can make a difference, they say. The U.S. has the 10th highest adult obesity rate in the nation, according to Trust for America's Health and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. It has been rising steadily since 2003.

Claim: "The poverty rate for families in which a husband and a wife work is 5 percent, but in families headed by one person its 30 percent today."
Evidence Summary: A family earning the average median income in the U.S. spends about one-fifth of their household income on childcare for one child. For women making minimum wage, full-time childcare costs 64 percent of their income. To keep Mom at home, the average single-income family must forfeit decent public schools and preschools, health insurance, and college degrees. Such pressures have taken these women out of the home and away from their children and simultaneously made family life less, not more, financially secure.

Claim: "The Mormon religion has ""a plan that will see the Constitution thrown out and replaced by a theocracy."""
Evidence Summary: Residents of The Ranch are a hodgepodge of people whose members in Utah haven’t always gotten along. Despite their differences, the mainstream Latter-day Saints and people on The Ranch still share core beliefs. The community still uses its texts. “Nothing is hopeless in God’s eyes,” Seth Laub, an elder in the congregation, gave a lesson from the Book of Mormon. ‘I believe Missouri is the promised land,’ said Sean Anderson, a 51-year-old fundamentalist Mormon.

Claim: "Florida ranks ""45th out of 50 states'' for its regulatory climate for business."
Evidence Summary: The 16th annual Roadmap Report evaluates each state on its implementation of road safety laws the group recommends. 11 states, including Arizona, Florida and Virginia, fall "dangerously behind" South Dakota scored the lowest in the group's rankings by implementing only two of the recommended laws. Rhode Island received the highest grade by implementing 13 of 16 laws. Almost half -- 47 percent -- of passenger vehicle occupants killed were unrestrained, the group said. Only six states and the District of Columbia were given a green rating for showing significant advancement.

Claim: "The incoming Republican freshman class well, its no ordinary group: nearly half of its roughly 80 members have never served in elective office before."
Evidence Summary: Rep.-elect Haley Stevens (D-Mich.) was stopped by security as she tried to get to the House to be sworn in. She didn’t yet have a member pin, only a pass. The officer, who did not recognize her, looked at her name on the badge and muttered “bear with me here.” It did not put a dent in her excitement to become a member of Congress. “We are energized and we are resolved,” Stevens said.

Claim: "More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day."
Evidence Summary: Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000 people, the data show. The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015. “There are slightly fewer births this year than last year,” Lila Valencia, a senior demographer with the Texas Demographic center, said. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each.

Claim: "In the past three years, we have prosecuted or brought more cases on access to public records than in the previous 12 years combined."
Evidence Summary: Civil cases brought by the government, for example for alleged environmental or securities violations, have been stalled. "As the spigot is turned off, it's beginning to impact our ability to protect the innocent, and prosecute the guilty," Leiser says. Prosecutors are already running out of money for such basics as DNA testing, paying informants, or travelling to interview victims and witnesses. It is welcome that lawyers will have better access to vital information, but if government is to be held to account, this level of secrecy has no place in our justice system.

Claim: "Says nobody in higher education believes Gov. Rick Perrys proposal to serve up $10,000 college degrees is possible."
Evidence Summary: Tennessee Promise has been offering two years of tuition-free community college or technical school to all high school graduates, regardless of income. It inspired President Barack Obama’s free community college push in 2015 and provided a model for a handful of other states that have launched free-college programs of their own. “The income disparity deal is real in our country,” Haslam said in an interview, “and the question is, `What are we going to do about it?’”

Claim: "Says Rick Perry is spending more money than the state takes in, covering his deficits with record borrowing."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation. He offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. “I don’t know which is worse — that Walker doesn”t understand marginal tax rates OR he is outright lying to 5th graders,” one tweeted.

Claim: "Says Wendy Davis, born into difficult circumstances, was the daughter of a single mother and a teenage mother herself."
Evidence Summary: Elizabeth Warren uses her family’s struggles to discuss what working families confront today. Kirsten Gillibrand seemed to emphasize she is not just a mom, but a young mom. Beto O’Rourke has struggled to reconcile the snub of Ms. Jones, particularly in a year when female and nonwhite candidates like her helped lift Democrats to a House majority. And Wendy Davis sounded almost anguished when asked if Mr. O'Rourke had a special responsibility to support a female candidate of color.

Claim: "Says under Mitt Romney, Medicare could end as we know it, leaving Julia with nothing but a voucher to buy insurance, which means $6,350 extra per year for a similar plan."
Evidence Summary: One-third of Senate Democrats and more than half of House Democrats have endorsed Medicare-for-all proposals. Such proposals would lead to more government involvement in health care, and bring the U.S. a step closer to mostly socialized systems such as the British National Health Service. Their popularity is driven by frustration with the current private insurance system, which remains costly on the individual market despite ObamaCare’s goals. But Medicare- for-all is estimated to cost tens of trillions of dollars over a decade.

Claim: "The city of Atlanta has one of the highest lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender populations per capita, ranking third among major American cities."
Evidence Summary: Even when cities seem progressive on the surface, the lived experience of members of the LGBT community can tell a dramatically different story. A study in 2017 found that four in 10 LGBT South Africans know of someone who has been killed for “being or suspected of being” LGBT. Black members of this community are twice as likely (49%) as white people (26%) to know of an LGBT person who has was murdered. Even in London and Paris, which both have a reputation of being queer-friendly cities, hate crimes have increased in recent years.

Claim: "Says Abraham Lincoln tried to buy slavesfreedom in border states, but the states all rejected it."
Evidence Summary: President Lincoln felt that a significant front in his war to preserve the Union was against the news media. The New York Herald once wrote of Lincoln that “his election was a rash experiment, his administration is a deplorable failure” Alexander Hamilton “did not like slavery, there is no question about that,” but antislavery “was low down on Hamilton’s list of priorities compared to other things,’ Professor Foner said. The Constitution will not be preserved and defended until it is enforced and obeyed in every part of the United States.

Claim: "You see a whole bunch of Korean cars here in the United States, and you dont see any American cars in Korea."
Evidence Summary: Kim's speech comes amid great discord between Seoul and Washington on the finalization of an agreement to govern burden-sharing within the alliance. Kim encouraged his counterpart in the South to push ahead with inter-Korean projects without waiting for support from the United States. Kim dangled specifically the prospect of resuming the operations of the Kaesong Industrial Park and tourism activities at Mt. Kumgang. The transition comes at a difficult time for the group as Hyundai struggles with an extended sales slowdown in the US and China.

Claim: "The ABA's own criteria for a judicial nominee call for, among other things, at least 12 years' experience in the practice of law, and they mean actual practice of law."
Evidence Summary: The liberal legal academy hasn’t come up with an easily digestible rival idea. Becoming a judge is a time-consuming exercise in networking. The Federalists are known for their roster of wide-open debates and events. There is already a strong presence of ethnic minority judges in tribunals, county courts and among district judges, she said. “The way we can try and improve diversity in the higher echelons is being more open to transfers from other [courts],” Hale said.

Claim: "Obama ""says he'll raise taxes on electricity."""
Evidence Summary: Cheap natural gas and the rising use of renewable power like solar and wind have kept electric prices relatively low for years. Generators said they plan to shut around 8,422 MW of coal-fired power and 1,500 MW of nuclear in 2019. The bill marks a significant step toward weaning the nation’s largest and most economically influential city off fossil fuels. The legislation calls for researching at least six different types of batteries to store excess wind or solar power for times when the wind doesn't blow and the sun isn’t shining.

Claim: "With the tax controls we already put in place, property taxes on a typical home in December of 2014 will actually be lower than they were in December of 2010."
Evidence Summary: Mayor Thomas McDermott Jr. warns council that city’s 2020 budget “is going to be rough.” “If we don’t do any more cutting, we are going to lose $5 (million) to $6 million next year to property tax caps,” he said. “The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes,’ she said. "We are actually projecting a fall off in tax take from corporations," he added.

Claim: "If you look at what weve done over the last several years, the crime rate has actually gone down in [Providence] and . . . the number of shootings has been going down."
Evidence Summary: After reciting the oath of office, Reynolds recited, from memory, the preamble of the United States Constitution. “When you think about what it is police do in society, it really boils down to the words written over 200 years ago in that very, in my opinion, perfect document,” Reynolds said. "We need to up the clearance rates. They’re abysmal, not just for homicides, but shootings, car jackings, all violent crime," Joyce said.

Claim: "There are at least 23 countries that refuse to take their people back after theyve been ordered to leave the United States, including large numbers of violent criminals."
Evidence Summary: Violence in El Salvador, Guatemala drove migration out of those countries. Human rights groups warn that Mexico, one of the most violent countries in the world, is not safe for asylum seeker. Advocates warn the plan would add formidable new challenges to the already-tortuous asylum process. The president also also correctly made the point that President Trump quite correctly made, CNN's John Berman says. The plan would be a major escalation in the battle over asylum seekers in the U.S.-Mexico border region.

Claim: "As CFO, Alex Sink oversaw a $27 billion loss in the states pension fund."
Evidence Summary: Hedge-fund billionaire Larry Robbins earned renown with successful bets on President Obama’s health-care overhaul. The largest fund run by Mr. Robbins’ Glenview Capital Management, LLC lost about 16.2% in 2018, according to a person familiar with the matter. Early data from Hedge Fund Research shows that the average hedge fund lost 6.7 percent last year, slightly more than the S&P 500's 6.2 percent loss.Shareholders are charged annual operating expenses of $4 for every $10,000 invested — a fraction of the $100 and up that actively managed funds may charge.

Claim: "As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses."
Evidence Summary: Suspect said he purchased a gun last week and "no one thought anything of it" because he had always liked guns. Police say they were the only five people in the bank at the time. This was at least the fourth mass shooting in Florida with five or more dead in the last three years. A gunman killed 49 at an Orlando nightclub in 2016, five died at the Fort Lauderdale airport in 2017 and 17 died in February at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in a Fort Lauderdale suburb.

Claim: Says New Jersey has the most educated population of all the states in this country.
Evidence Summary: There is no disputing a relationship between higher tax rates in states and lower net population migration. Blue states like Connecticut, Illinois and New York with higher taxes and a higher cost of living are losing residents or gaining population at very low rates. No-income-tax states such as Florida, Nevada, Texas and Washington have grown at double-digit rates this decade. Haddonfield lies just across the Delaware River from Philadelphia, providing its residents access to the jobs that city offers. Many potential customers don’t like what Illinois higher ed is selling.

Claim: "The Wisconsin law repealed by Republicans, which allowed discriminated workers to sue in state court, was kind of a gravy train for lawyers."
Evidence Summary: Since the Pendleton Act of 1883, America’s federal workers have been protected from the political patronage systems familiar under President Andrew Jackson and in urban political machines. Public employee legal protections now extend beyond hiring and firing, to any form of “discrimination” based on political affiliation. The decision is likely laying the groundwork for upcoming disputes, including the question of whether the phrase discrimination should be read to protect LGBTQ employees. But those can wait for another day, and Gorsuch deserves credit for following his textualist principles.

Claim: "Over the past twenty years, the number of homicides committed with a firearm in the United States has decreased by nearly 40 percent. The number of other crimes involving the use of a firearm has also plummeted, declining by nearly 70 percent."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik's commentary distorted a few facts, Yvonne Smith says. She says firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, 60 percent of those were suicides. Smith: There is no evidence to support the idea that expanding access to firearms increases individual safety and security. In Brazil, a 1 percent rise in firearm availability increases the homicide rate by 2 percent, she says. The Chicago Police Department is committed to crime fighting and has made successful efforts to reduce gun violence by using high-tech tools.

Claim: "Says right now, we have more military spending than the next 10, 11, 12 countries combined."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump says the U.S. is willing to sell missile defense technology to allies. Peter Bergen: Money cannot fix the military’s lack of imagination. Trump's criticism is not that countries fail to meet their stated annual requirements to the alliance, but that they neglect to spend enough on their own national defense, he says. Bergen, Cropsey: The big increase in the defense appropriations for fiscal 2019 is almost all going... But these numbers represent respective national defense budgets.

Claim: "Remember that developers are forced to use the 195 land union contractors, so tap an extra $10 million into any construction project."
Evidence Summary: The developer also wants $800 million in controversial tax increment financing to back the construction of new roads, bridges and other infrastructure. City officials need to write language into the Lincoln Yards zoning document that guarantees them effective ongoing oversight of the project, which would take at least a decade to complete. "I don't think anyone's paying attention to the plight of the contractors," Sterling Bay's CEO says. "It's not my fight or squabble, I don't understand why I have to bear the brunt of thissquabble"

Claim: "Due to ... tax cuts and lower (property) values, 2009 property taxes were almost $3 billion below 2007 property taxes."
Evidence Summary: Property taxes are largely levied at the local level, and cities where residents pay more property taxes as a percentage of their home value were penalized. “We are far from the $7 billion we need, but the belief that schools are not getting paid is fundamentally wrong,” Kifowit says. The money is paid statewide for all the kids in Illinois – not just the suburbs, she says.“I have two kids in junior high right now and one in high school, and think that education is important,’ Kroner says. � “I want to know more about how our local finances work and how we get money from the state.”

Claim: "Food stamp spending doubled under President Bush, doubled again under President Obama."
Evidence Summary: The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. Many Americans who benefit from government assistance are literally in denial. The U.S. Department of Agriculture will urge states to pay out the benefit by Jan. 20 at the latest, after they receive billions of dollars from the federal government for the program. “This is very similar to what we have done in disaster situations such as hurricanes,” Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue told reporters on Tuesday.“What the heck is this?” Lewis, 82, was afraid the government had erroneously deposited extra money on her card.

Claim: "Marco Rubio was ""subpoenaed."""
Evidence Summary: The new Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep. Jerry Nadler of New York, is readying a subpoena to compel acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker to testify later this month. The order could be issued within days if Whitaker and committee Democrats can’t reach an agreement on a hearing date. The move could become one of the first investigative actions of the new House majority that has promised to provide oversight of the Trump administration. Republican Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas said Sunday on NBC News it's "premature" to be subpoenaing interpreters.

Claim: "As governor, in the face of partisan attacks, (Charlie Crist) had the courage to save jobs and lead his state into economic recovery."
Evidence Summary: Rauner pointed to some small-bore achievements during his farewell appearance Thursday. But he didn’t come close to backing up his parting boast, “I’ll put our track record of accomplishment up against any governor in the U.S. in the last four years.” Rauner’s refusal to negotiate a state budget unless the General Assembly knuckled under to his anti-union demands marked him as a politically clueless ideologue, not the sort of can-do leader Illinois needs.

Claim: "It is senior citizens, not Hispanics, who are the fastest-growing demographic in this country."
Evidence Summary: “Yeah, we have to have border security,” he said, then raised his voice to a shout. “But there’s a smart and a humane way to do it. And there is no way in hell that caging babies is a smart or a good or a right way toDo it.” “We say no to building a wall and yes to building community.’ “The wall remains the wrong direction for us as a country, something that will not help advance any of our national interests”

Claim: "Four balanced budgets in a row, with no new taxes for anyone. The best job growth in 12 years. Nearly 130,000 new private-sector jobs. Merit pay to reward New Jerseys best teachers, and the most education funding ever."
Evidence Summary: Pritzker became the state’s 43rd governor and its latest experimentation in leadership. During an inauguration speech that cast forward, Pritzker reinforced a policy agenda he advocated on the campaign trail. He vowed to propose, debate and pass a balanced budget. “Our government will be progressive, principled, and always on the side of the people,” the governor said in his inauguration speech. "We will offer an alternative to the corruption and incompetence in the White House," he added.

Claim: "Says Joe Biden said Jon Corzine is the smartest guy that I know, in terms of the economy and on finance, I really mean this."
Evidence Summary: Biden addressed the U.S Conference of Mayors in Washington, D.C., where he spoke at length about his experience in the Obama administration dealing with the 2008 financial crash. “I get in trouble, I read in the New York Times that one of my problems is, if I ever run for president, I like Republicans: Okay well bless me, Father, for I have sinned,” Biden said, crossing himself. Last month, he described himself as the "most qualified person in the country to be president"

Claim: "Taxpayer-funded benefits to illegals in California are ""a skyrocketing cost under Obamacare."""
Evidence Summary: California and other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. At issue is a requirement under ObamaCare that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. Illegal immigration costs taxpayers a staggering $134.9 billion a year while contributing only $19 billion in state, federal, and local taxes. Medical costs make up the lion’s share of government expenditures on illegal immigrants, while education is the largest single expense that illegal immigration imposes on state and local governments.

Claim: "Should Democrats get their way, every income tax bracket will increase on Jan. 1, 2011. Every single one."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy over who does and doesn't understand how America's tax system works. Julian Zelizer: The wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. He says the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations, at a cost of $1.9 trillion over 10 years. Zelizer says Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda that could become a reality after 2020.

Claim: "Parents and teachers are already worrying about what they call the Trump Effect. They report that bullying and harassment are on the rise in our schools, especially targeting students of color, Muslimsand immigrants."
Evidence Summary: Researchers found a correlation between voter preference and bullying and observed teasing across one state. The Human Rights Campaign surveyed 50,000 American middle and high schoolers, and 79 percent of them said bullying incidents had increased since the start of Trump’s campaign. "Parents should be mindful of how their reactions to the presidential election, or the reactions of others, could influence their children," says Dewey Cornell, a psychologist and professor of education at UVA. Regardless of where and how it happens, adds Francis Huang, "bullying is something that can still be addressed and brought down in schools"

Claim: "With one stroke of his pen, President Bush has denied health insurance to 3.8 million kids who were due to get it under this bipartisan expansion of the Children's Health Insurance Program."
Evidence Summary: About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Says With nearly 75 percent of Americans supportive of the construction of the pipeline, Schrader needs to explain to Oregon families why he voted against this needed project."
Evidence Summary: Jared Polis: “It’s time for us to take meaningful action to address the conflicts between oil-and-gas drilling operators and the neighborhoods that they impact.” Polis had previously pushed a number of anti-fracking ballot measures, including a 2,000-foot setback. “If these politicians don’t recognize their responsibility to work with us and the people affected by this crisis, we’ll vote you out,” says 18-year-old.

Claim: Claims Wisconsin Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald said: It is necessary to eliminate unions in order to balance future budgets.
Evidence Summary: Historically, the combination of this inside game and grass-roots pressure gave the unions sway in Washington. Last year, after Mr. Trump proposed freezing federal pay, the unions used their influence in the Senate to help pass the nearly 2 percent pay increase they sought — by a 92 to 6 margin. The shutdown is putting that model to the test. Most Senate Republicans, however sympathetic they may be privately, have so far resisted the appeals of union officials, deferring to the president on a fight he says is central to his re-election.

Claim: "While Romney was a director of the Damon Corporation, the company was defrauding Medicare of millions."
Evidence Summary: Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. In his first run for public office against then-Sen. Ted Kennedy (D) in 1994, Romney declared himself a strong supporter of abortion rights. In 2012, facing a much different electorate, Romney called for defunding Planned Parenthood to win the evangelical-heavy Republican presidential primaries. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare.

Claim: "Says Marco Rubio voted against every bill that would have helped keep our families safe. He even voted against a bipartisan measure, introduced by a Republican, to prevent people on the no-fly list from purchasing guns."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Marco Rubio, one of the Republican senators to introduce the anti-BDS bill, immediately called Tlaib's post an "anti-Semitic line" Critics have charged that the bill might amount to an unconstitutional First Amendment violation. Rubio suggested that the real reason Democrats were criticizing Republicans for introducing the pro-Israel bill is that "a significant # of Senate Democrats now support #BDS & Dem leaders want to avoid a floor vote that reveals that" Rep. Thompson said he and other lawmakers from both parties have been pushing for years to expand background checks and approve other gun-related bills.

Claim: "Without a Medicaid expansion, 275,000 more Ohioans could be getting their primary care in emergency rooms, costing everybody a lot of money."
Evidence Summary: “It’s simply intolerable to me that the richest country in the world can’t provide for the basic health needs of its most vulnerable citizens due to our grossly overpriced healthcare system,” he said. “We should be ashamed that so many Americans—-especially veterans who sacrificed so much for our freedom—are struggling to afford healthcare, facing no-win choices between paying for food or paying for medicine, between making rent or making a doctor's appointment.”

Claim: "The truth is any oil that would be drilled could be sent to any other country in the world, reducing our use of foreign oil not by one single drop."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "But they also lead to more investment in low fuel economy cars and more driving. And that means even less progress on fighting climate change, which we know is largely man made." "There is no one who can deny the effectiveness of that. Let's just do that and propose that and get some funding for that type of measure"

Claim: "When President Bush took office in 2001, he inherited a $236 billion budget surplus, with a projected 10-year surplus of $5.6 trillion. When he ended his term, he left a $1.3 trillion deficit and a projected 10-year shortfall of $8 trillion."
Evidence Summary: The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion. The Medicare trust fund is now on track for insolvency in 2026. Federal spending outpaced revenue by $317 billion over the first three months of the fiscal year, the budget office reported. The widening deficit comes despite a booming economy and a low unemployment rate that would typically help fill the government’s coffers. The monthly numbers from the Congressional Budget Office also show an increase in spending on federal debt.

Claim: "Barack Obama said ""people making less than $250,000 would benefit from his plan"" then said ""if you're a family making less than $200,000, you'll benefit."""
Evidence Summary: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations. Julian Zelizer: The new law provides only marginal or no benefits for average Americans and households of color in particular. He says Democrats should frame their economic agenda in a truly progressive and race forward manner. The Baby Bonds and LIFT proposals would remedy this by boosting wealth and paychecks, respectively, for a one-two economic punch, Zelizer says.. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s 70 percent income tax rate is the opening shot in a renewed war against middle class taxpayers.

Claim: "Before President Obama acted in Libya in 2011, the American people were opposed to military action by 35 to 60. After he took action, they were in support of it 54 to 43."
Evidence Summary: Most Americans don’t have deeply held views on whether the U.S. should withdraw from Syria. Most Clinton voters said they opposed the withdrawal, but just over a third did so strongly. But Americans do have strong views about Trump, especially those who dislike him. The poll's release coincided with Friday's 46th annual March for Life in Washington. The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted Dec. 20-22 among U.s. adults.

Claim: "The Portland-Milwaukie Light Rail Transit Project has created 1,525 direct jobs as of June 11, 2012."
Evidence Summary: The all other pipeline transportation industry classification includes the transportation of any product other than crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum. The industry is tied to the construction sector and, as a result, tends to grow in tandem with economic growth. Health care and education services added 82,000 jobs in December, the biggest jump since February 2012. Restaurants and drinking placed posted a net gain of 40,700 jobs. Builders added 38,000 construction jobs, while manufacturers increased their payrolls by 32,000 workers.

Claim: "The fact that one town has three lanes dedicated to it, that kind of gets me sauced."
Evidence Summary: "They find it's the easiest place to come through. They drive right in and make a left. It's not going to happen," she says. "You see these things on TV but to be happening at a school in my ward is shocking" "Should you really have to think about those things in Berlin?" she asks. "One of the biggest and most important tech cities in Europe?" "If one of these lorries turns over, anything could happen" "It has to encompass all parts of the country.”

Claim: "Independent analysts found that Trumps tax plan, given to the wealthy and big corporations, would rack up $30 trillion in debt."
Evidence Summary: Republicans sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. Just because the new law helped to increase economic growth, said Kyle Pomerleau, an economist with the Tax Foundation, “it doesn’t mean that it is going to paid for itself” The uncomfortable truth for the bill’s supporters is that the tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years — as many economists believe it will — the cuts could exacerbate the deficit.

Claim: "In South Carolina, women earn 76 cents on the dollar to mens earnings."
Evidence Summary: Citigroup says female employees earn 29 percent less than men do. The bank also reported that, among its U.S. employees, people of color earn 7 percent less. "The numbers are difficult," said Sara Wechter, Citigroup's global head of human resources. "We should obviously be at 100 percent parity, and that's what we're striving for," she said. "There is no reasonable reason to pay men more than women for the same work," students say.

Claim: Mark Kirk: Lied about going to war. Opposed middle class tax cuts. And said unemployments not that big an issue.
Evidence Summary: There were failures and distractions along the way. Walker didn't deliver on his signature 2010 campaign promise to create 250,000 private-sector jobs. He faced investigations, first into aides and political allies from his time as Milwaukee County executive, then into his recall campaign. Just three weeks before leaving office, Walker signed Republican legislation weakening the powers of his successor as well as the incoming Democratic attorney general. "His conduct and that of those like him laid the groundwork for the modern Republican Party led by Donald Trump," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton told the Des Moines Register on Aug. 8, 2015:I will get the NRA shut down for good if I become president. If we can ban handguns, we will do it."
Evidence Summary: New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand has shifted sharply to the left on gun control. She told CBS's "60 Minutes" last year that she was "wrong" about her previous stances. She boasted in 2009 about receiving a 100 percent "A" rating from the National Rifle Association. She was also a member of the conservative Democratic Blue Dog coalition when she represented New York's rural 20th congressional district in the House. The 2020 presidential race is just beginning, and already several declared or possible 2020 Democratic presidential contenders have shifted markedly to the right.

Claim: To deprive underprivileged children of a meat-based protein during school lunch is most likely depriving them of their only source of protein for the day.
Evidence Summary: The USDA assures that school lunch programs have funding through the end of March. Vance County school system said it's trying "to conserve food and funding" in a district where most students come from families with incomes low enough to qualify for free or reduced-price lunch. The report suggests a dramatic reduction in red meat consumption for people who eat a lot of it, like Americans and Canadians, but not the world’s poor, who need more animal protein for better health. It calls for curbing food waste, a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, and overhauling agriculture.

Claim: "Says Allen West helped thwart a terrorist plot by shooting a gun in the direction of an Iraqi detainee, then reported the incident to his superior and said it was wrong."
Evidence Summary: President Trump's national security team held a series of meetings to discuss a forceful U.S. response to a mortar attack in Baghdad. The president's outside counsel said in a statement earlier today that it's categorically false. The American public, by and large, do not trust the folks inside the Beltway or in the press, says CNN's Joshua Johnson. The special counsel chose to correct this one says that they weren't troubled by the vast majority of those thousands of other stories, he says.

Claim: "The Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, threatens global public health."
Evidence Summary: A new report suggests a dramatic reduction in red meat consumption for people who eat a lot of it, but not the world’s poor, who need more animal protein for better health. In Alaska, not eating the meat is viewed as an embarrassment, and a waste of precious resources. Sonia Shah sat down with Sarah Crichton, her editor, to talk about visiting illegal pig farms in China, the cholera epidemic of 1832, and her family's personal experience with the superbug MRSA.

Claim: Says Republican candidates in key Wisconsin Assembly races side with those who want to privatize Social Security -- and risk our retirements on Wall Street.
Evidence Summary: As deficits balloon following their tax cuts, GOP leaders suggest curbing the massive Social Security and Medicare programs. But the demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget, and the government projects the number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. In Kaiser’s polls, these proposals were even more popular than Medicare for all, although Kaiser didn’t test how these ideas held up to common conservative criticisms.

Claim: "During Sherrod Browns past decade as a D.C. politician, more than one out of every four jobs that has left America, left from Ohio. ... Sherrod Brown will own these horrendous Ohio job numbers next year."
Evidence Summary: Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown is launching a tour of three states that cast pivotal early votes in the 2020 presidential primary. The move from the Ohio Democrat is a key step before he decides whether to launch a campaign for the White House. Brown won a third term in November on the strength of a message he calls the "Dignity of Work" He hopes his brand of economic populism can counter President Trump's appeal to white, working-class voters that helped him flip Ohio and other key midwestern states.

Claim: "We never had an earthquake in Youngstown until John Kasich was elected Governor,"
Evidence Summary: "Our job now is not to rest on that foundation. It is to build our house upon it," he said. "It’s time for Republicans in our state capitals and Washington to get in step with the fast-moving parade," he added. The former Ohio governor wrote an op-ed for the Boston Globe to commemorate Martin Luther King Jr. Day. He decried the political division that led to the ongoing government shutdown and called upon Americans to take personal action to better their communities.

Claim: On assault weapon violence: Ducks have more protection than people in Virginia.
Evidence Summary: Nina E. Vinik: Gun-related deaths topped nearly 40,000 in 2017 in the U.S. She says it is extremely rare for a legal gun owner to use a gun successfully in self-defense. Right-to-carry laws also normalize the practice of carrying guns, Vinik says. It makes it harder for the police to know who is and who is not allowed to possess guns in public, she says.ik: Guns in the home heighten the risk of suicide, and accidental gun injuries and deaths.

Claim: The increase in the garbage tax that [Mayor Allan Fung] imposed in Cranston for some people has been as much as $200.
Evidence Summary: Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has proposed an increase of 30 cents per gallon to one of the nation’s highest gas taxes. Deerfield Mayor Harriet Rosenthal began talking to representatives of each of the governmental entities encouraging them to keep taxes the same as last year. The South Elgin tax rate is the lowest among the communities it neighbors. The increase would put it on par with what St. Charles, Geneva, Bartlett and Batavia charge and far lower than Elgin's 9.5 percent rate.

Claim: "As state Commerce secretary, Mary Burke drafted, sponsored and promoted budgets that raised taxes by billions, created high structural deficits and raided funds to finance huge spending hikes."
Evidence Summary: Ald. Edward Burke is charged with using his position as alderman to solicit business for his private law firm. He was forced to give up his role as chairman of the finance committee after he was charged. In February 2012, a federal grand jury subpoenaed finance committee records related to the city’s workers compensation program. The FBI carried out a second search of Burke's City Hall office on Dec.13. Known for his fedoras, slicked-back hair, pinstripe suits and pinky rings, Burke often had the muscle to decide whether Chicago's most important legislation gets the green light.

Claim: "Despite claims that you can keep the health care plan you like, the Obama Administration has predicted that as many as 7 out of 10 Americans with employer-provided health coverage could lose their current health plan."
Evidence Summary: Medicare-for-all threatens to make the same exact mistake ObamaCare made – expanding health care coverage over controlling health care costs. wiping out private insurance would also mean ending the insurance arrangements that the majority of Americans now have, either through their employers or through Medicare Advantage. How Americans would feel about this is a big unknown. As employer insurance gets more expensive, employers are passing along some of those higher costs to their workers in the form of higher co-pays and deductibles. But employer coverage is still popular, at least according to industry polling.

Claim: "In my years in the State Legislature, I have never voted for a tax increase."
Evidence Summary: In a move that might appear at odds with the celebrations over Trump’s federal tax cuts, Roberts county voted for a local tax increase in 2014 to fund the construction of a modern school building. “I’m just conservative in my values and views and a lot of the things Mr Trump believes, I agree with,” said Miami Independent School District principal Mark Driskell. ‘We cannot just cut ourselves out of this but we have to change how we are doing things as well,’ he said. � “We have to do something different. What I do not want to be a part of is to make cuts to balance the budget and watch our school system turn into a system that I don’t want to send my kids to”

Claim: "The lawyer who brought the case against NationsBank said publicly that Alex Sink had nothing to do with the case, had nothing to do with the situation and didnt know about the problems."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Browder submitted a request in late December for Danske Bank to be elevated back to a suspect in the case. He accused the bank of making misstatements about its awareness of money-laundering activity when testifying before the French magistrate in October 2017. The news about the French probe comes days after a U.S. pension fund, Plumbers & Steamfitters Local 773 Pension Fund, announced a class-action lawsuit against the bank. The bank is aware of the lawsuit filed by the pension fund and that several law firms have indicated similar suits are coming.

Claim: "Were spending millions for each individual held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba."
Evidence Summary: Guantánamo Bay remains a ‘stain on the human rights record’ of the US, says Amnesty International. The prison, which once housed almost 250 inmates, has long been a source of controversy. As part of its efforts to clear the camp, the Obama administration transferred 200 inmates to other countries. However, 40 remain in the prison complex on a small US-run enclave on the southern coast of Cuba, following resistance from the Pentagon and reluctance of foreign governments to accept the remaining detainees.

Claim: "Barack Obama promises higher taxes on ""the sale of your home."""
Evidence Summary: Hannity is upset that Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) wants to introduce a marginal tax rate of up to 70 percent for the nation’s wealthiest people. If wealthy Americans were taxed more, “rich people are not going to remodel their homes,” he claimed. “The contractor, the electrician, the plumber, the carpenters ― they’re the ones that benefit when rich people spend money on their homes.”

Claim: "Under federal law, Jared Loughner would not have been able to buy a gun had he been identified as mentally ill."
Evidence Summary: In the wake of the shooting massacre at a Parkland, Florida, high school last year, California passed several measures to prevent domestic abusers and people with mental illness from obtaining guns. Under an expanded Oregon law that went into effect on Jan. 1, domestic abuse offenders or people under restraining orders are banned from owning or purchasing a gun. In Illinois, authorities now have the right to seize firearms from people determined to be a danger to themselves or others. A similar “red flag” law will go into effect in New Jersey later this year.

Claim: "Two million federal workers negotiate zippo, zero. There is no collective bargaining for federal employees."
Evidence Summary: Frustrated employees posted photos on Twitter of their pay stub showing a net pay of $0. Members of Congress left town on Friday and no negotiations are scheduled. “This shutdown isn’t funny anymore,” Randy Erwin, the president of the National Federation of Federal Employees, said at a rally in downtown Washington on Thursday. The question we should be asking is not whether federal workers will, can or should strike, but how can the broader labor movement start to see the modest first steps of rank and file federal workers as the necessary next steps.

Claim: "The Congressional Budget Office ""estimates that only 15 percent of this stimulus package will be spent in 2009"" and only 37 percent in 2010."
Evidence Summary: The federal budget deficit continued to rise in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and is on pace to top $1 trillion for the year. The widening deficit comes despite a booming economy and a low unemployment rate that would typically help fill the government’s coffers. Federal spending outpaced revenue by $317 billion over the first three months of the fiscal year, which began in October. That was 41 percent higher than the same period a year ago, or 17 percent after factoring in payment shifts that made the fiscal 2018 first-quarter deficit appear smaller.

Claim: "Says U.S. Senate opponent Tammy Baldwin supported a federal budget that spent trillions -- not billions, trillions -- more money than the Obama budget."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Dick Durbin said the White House has offered 1.3 billion for a border wall. President Trump has demanded more than $5 billion for the project. Democrats have refused to pay for the wall. The shutdown is now in its third week over the president's insistence on more money. The White House is yet to produce any documentation backing up its latest demands. The president's opponents have urged television networks to be aggressive in fact-checking any false statements. The President could have taken this long ago and we could have moved forward. But he said, "No, I'm going to shut down my own government."https://t.co/duKNgPPAv2 — Karen DaltonBeninato (@kbeninato) January 13, 2019

Claim: "Says under President Barack Obama, the debt increased by 23 percent, which was less than under any president going back to Ronald Reagan."
Evidence Summary: David Rothkopf: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, he says. He says it was silly for Trump to take credit for the recovery he inherited last year, but he could plausibly argue that his tax cuts provided a shot of economic adrenaline. Rothkapf: But Trump also owns the red ink created by those tax cuts.

Claim: The Secure Communities Program and 287(g) immigration programs were programs that worked but were recklessly gutted by the Obama administration.
Evidence Summary: Obama's order shielded up to 5 million immigrants from deportation and bolstered protections for "DREAMers" Republicans blasted Obama for acting unilaterally, and the Supreme Court ultimately struck down the plan in 2016. The Trump administration tried to dismantle DACA, an Obama-era program that shields approximately 800,000 young undocumented immigrants. The Department of Homeland Security also announced the eventual termination of TPS protections for more than 250,000 immigrants from El Salvador, Honduras, Sudan and Haiti, but a federal judge blocked the decision in early October.

Claim: "Says that Susan Rice, the presidents national security adviser, has already conceded that Iran will have a robust uranium enrichment capability."
Evidence Summary: Trump security adviser, on four-day trip to Israel and Turkey, says chemical weapons use would be met with ‘very strong response’ Trump national security adviser John Bolton has warned the Syrian government it should not see the impending US military withdrawal as an invitation to use chemical weapons. The head of Iran's nuclear program said Sunday that the Islamic Republic has begun "preliminary activities for designing" a modern process for 20-percent uranium enrichment for its 50-year-old research reactor. Restarting enrichment at that level would mean Iran had withdrawn the 2015 nuclear deal it struck with world powers.

Claim: "Because theres no local option to allow communities to ban, limit or restrict the location of pot shops, if Amendment 2 passes you can expect the seedy elements of the pot industry to move in right next door to your neighborhood, your church, your business and even your childs school."
Evidence Summary: New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and new Democratic majorities in the state Legislature are pushing for legalization. For every dollar in revenue generated, marijuana legalization may cost taxpayers $10 in government spending and programs. For Democrats, supporting marijuana legalization is a way to mobilize young and minority voters. But banning marijuana drives sales into the black market, where criminals do the selling, writes John Sutter. He says politicians have given in to populism and the weed industry by allowing the sale of marijuana products with only the weakest of warning labels.

Claim: "With his decision on whether to fire Gen. Stanley McChrystal, President Obama has to fix yet another problem he inherited from the Bush administration."
Evidence Summary: The president tweeted that retired Gen. Stanley McChrystal “got fired like a dog” and is “known for big, dumb mouth” Trump also said that Mc Chrystal is a “Hillary lover!” The retired four-star general was fired in 2010 by President Barack Obama over critical comments about the administration. “The chain of command has been broken and there's no commander in chief – it’s time to get on the right side of history,” he wrote.

Claim: "Under the Espionage Act, (Edward Snowden would not be) allowed to come into court and say I was justified in disclosing this information. There is no whistleblower exception in the Espionage Act."
Evidence Summary: A lawyer for Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, which is fighting to have the Virginia case unsealed, said the secrecy around the case deprives the public of knowing whether it presents any First Amendment concerns. The WikiLeaks statement seeks to portray the anti-secrecy group as a journalistic organization, and raises the specter that the Trump administration is seeking to prosecute journalists for reporting on classified information. "The Trump Administration … is clearly intent on using the prosecution of Julian Assange as an 'icebreaker' to set a dangerous precedent," the WikiLeaks statement says.

Claim: "Says Jeff Reardon cut elementary school music classes, art instruction, teaching positions, basketball and volleyball programs, and he voted to raise school lunch prices."
Evidence Summary: The unilateral cutting of major sports and activities in Hinsdale High School District 86 is a direct attack on our family values and our children. No choice was given to parents and students (the customers) before targeting kid’s sports and clubs. Customers were not even surveyed as to what the family preferences might be. No evidence based research was presented to prioritize where best to cut. Why not increase user fees, charge for expensive electives or reform where the biggest savings is? Is returning to a class size of 28 not a valid alternative to punishing families?

Claim: "In Florida, illegal immigration costs taxpayers nearly $4 billion (a year). This amounts to $700 for every household in Florida."
Evidence Summary: In a Cabinet meeting in late December, President Trump put the price of illegal immigration as high as $275 billion. The White House did not immediately respond to questions asking for clarity on where the president first discovered this statistic. A 2013 report from the conservative Heritage Foundation estimated that undocumented immigrant households cost the U.S. “around $54.5 billion” per year in net fiscal burden. In fact, illegal immigration costs taxpayers a staggering $134.9 billion a year while contributing only $19 billion in state, federal, and local taxes.

Claim: "The House passed cut, cap and balance with bipartisan support."
Evidence Summary: After Democrats take control of the House Thursday, they will move to immediately set a different direction through new rules. The package of changes range from those encouraging diversity – such as allowing religious headscarves to be worn on the House floor – to tougher ethics rules. It's the first new Congress to convene amid a partial government shutdown, now in its 13th day over Trump's demands for money for a wall along the U.S-Mexico border. "This House will be for the people," Pelosi was to say in remarks after winning the gavel.

Claim: "Last year, (Bill McCollum) spent more than $2.2 million dollars to produce and air campaign-style TV ads where you were featured in almost every frame."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand: "I think you do need to get money out of politics" The inaugural committee spent more than $1.5 million at the Trump International Hotel. A documentary overseen by a close friend of Melania Trump’s was ultimately abandoned. The move to install Danielle Butterfield as paid media director is a tacit acknowledgment of the growth of digital spending as a share of campaign ad dollars, according to a report by the Washington Post. The committee also spent $10,000 for makeup for 20 aides at an evening inaugural event.

Claim: "When the salmonella source was finally identified, FDA officials had to wait for industry approval before they could go live with the [peanut] recall."
Evidence Summary: FDA food inspectors responded to a number of high-profile food contamination emergencies last year, including two multi-state E. coli outbreaks linked to tainted romaine lettuce and a large-scale salmonella outbreak linked to cage-free eggs. A new report argues that federal health officials can and should be doing more to protect the U.S. food supply. The Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention argue that much of the increase in recalls is due to better detection and monitoring.

Claim: "As governor, Mitt Romney raised nursing home fees eight times."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney blasted President Donald Trump in a New Year's Day essay. Romney will be sworn in as the junior Republican senator from Utah on Friday. Romney has a history of flip-flopping on a wide variety of issues, including abortion rights, Obamacare and the tax cut for the wealthy. But he failed to mention how he was all too happy to accept Trump’s endorsements during his own presidential run in 2012 and in his race for the Senate last year. In between those two endorsements, Romney blasted Trump as “a phony, a fraud” just months before the 2016 election.

Claim: "Says if Texas abortion measure passes, someone living in El Paso would have to drive 550 miles each way to San Antonio for something as simple as cervical cancer screening."
Evidence Summary: For so many women, especially in Texas, Roe alone does not give barrier-free access to abortion care. Women of color, immigrants and LGBTQ people often are most deeply affected by these barriers. In a time when anti-abortion legislators are attempting to criminalize this safe, necessary health care, this is the right time for me to share my story. "By no means do we think that decisions around these very important life issues are to be taken lightly," Stewart-Cousins said.

Claim: "Woonsocket needs a garbage-burning power plant because residents are paying through the nose for electricity thats fueled by foreign oil, at prices that are skyrocketing."
Evidence Summary: The plants, located in the councilman’s native Astoria and neighboring Long Island City, each burn a mix of gas and fuel oil. The stations annually burn a combined 6.3 million gallons of No. 6 fuel oil, considered one of the most polluting energy sources in the world. Northern Indiana Public Service Co. planned to retire two of its five remaining coal-fired power plants by 2023. Now, it plans to do away with all of them over the next decade, and buy more solar and wind power.

Claim: "Every 1 percent increase in the cost of health insurance today causes about 30,000 Georgians to be uninsured."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. In the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent, not far from today’s mark. But as Kaiser Family Foundation Vice President Larry Levitt noted earlier on Wednesday, different sources of data keep showing different patterns.

Claim: As Governor: Romney did not keep public safety funding in line with inflation.
Evidence Summary: California's new governor, Gavin Newsom, praised his predecessor. Julian Zelizer: But Newsom's agenda is likely to be costly. He says Gov. Brown's insistence on holding onto state revenues was a source of friction. Zelizer says Romney's win-at-any-cost approach is the fire behind his attacks on Donald Trump. The new governor will face obstacles as he prepares to offer a new budget, he says. The public doesn't want to keep getting stuck with the bill for Democrats' decisions.

Claim: "Gov. Rick Perry broke his promise that he would not accept a $40,000 pay increase."
Evidence Summary: Illinois' new governor faces a slew of fiscal problems and the nagging issue of Illinoisans fleeing the Prairie State. One of the near-term fiscal problems is how to pay for those step raises granted state employees, whose unions endorsed Pritzker in last year’s election. “I’m six days into the term, and you already used all your ammo. So enjoy being exhausted for the next two years while we run train on the progressive agenda” – Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y.

Claim: We doubled the size of the company (Hewlett-Packard).
Evidence Summary: Amazon is reckoned to have 35m of its Echo devices installed in the US alone. IBM’s shares rose 8% Wednesday morning in response. The squeeze on smaller hardware players has played out before, in PCs and smartphones. In the mid-1990s, the PC market was dominated by American companies such as IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Gateway, Apple, Compaq, NCR, Packard Bell and Zenith. Now, only Dell, HP and Apple remain. The common good is better served by letting successful enterprises develop their own cultures.

Claim: "A Medicaid provision added to the Senate health carereform bill ""is not a special deal for Nebraska."""
Evidence Summary: Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state’s voters. Before CHIP was enacted, the number of uninsured children in America was around 10 million. Congress routinely adds the “Hyde Amendment’ — a rider to the spending bill for the Department of Health and Human Services to bar federal abortion funding in most cases for Medicaid and other health programs. The bill got 48 votes, 12 short of the number needed to move to a full Senate debate.

Claim: "With only 67 bills or so passed into law, 2013 was the least productive year in congressional history since weve been keeping record."
Evidence Summary: The 116th Congress has begun, and the Democratic Party has taken over control of the U.S. House of Representatives. But their first actions are highlighting a party just as out-of-touch with the American people as the one that voters kicked out of the White House two years ago. Their rules package to govern the House over the next two years empowers the D.C. establishment and cements high-spending Democrat rule. And finally, their spending bills do nothing to secure our southern border.

Claim: "Says of Donald Trump, He even said, on his very first day in office, he would require every school in America to let people carry guns into our classrooms."
Evidence Summary: Trump has made 7,600 false or misleading statements since he became president. "This should have been done by all of the presidents that preceded me," Trump said. "And they all know it. Some of them have told me that we should have done it." Only those killed by illegal immigrants are worth such public presidential concern, writes Ken Derow of Swarthmore, Pa. "Your speech further debased the dignity of the office," writes Derow. "As if we really need any more evidence, Mr. Trump once again underscored that he is unfit to occupy the White House," he adds.

Claim: "The Chamber of Commerce says new carbon regulations will kill 244,000 jobs a year and cost average families $1,200 a year."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. increased its carbon dioxide emissions in 2018, and a large part of the reason was one normally cited as a bonus — substantial economic growth. A booming American economy meant increased industrial production, more truck and air travel and more offices and other workplaces to heat. The result is the second-largest annual increase in the key greenhouse gas emissions in more than two decades, according to new estimates from the Rhodium Group. The report emphasizes that the numbers are preliminary estimates, with the Environmental Protection Agency scheduled to release actual figures in 2020.

Claim: "Florida's legal challenge of the federal health care bill is ""bipartisan."""
Evidence Summary: House Democrats have introduced a new rules package for the next session of Congress. It paves the way for the House to defend the Affordable Care Act in court and address climate change with a new committee. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., signaled her priority when affirming on her first day that House Democrats would defend the ACA against the latest legal challenge from Republicans. Republicans have a different choice to make. They can use the results of the election as an opportunity to officially cede the ground they have already really lost.

Claim: "The truth is, Planned Parenthood does not provide mammograms. Planned Parenthood refers women to mammography providers, serving as the middlewoman, if you will."
Evidence Summary: The HSE warned this week of websites with possible hidden agendas using similar names to its helpline. The mimic sites try to steer women away from abortions by warning of health dangers and offering ultrasounds to show an image of the foetus. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton hailed the ruling. "Planned Parenthood's reprehensible conduct, captured in undercover videos, proves that it is not a 'qualified' provider under the Medicaid Act, so we are confident we will ultimately prevail," the Republican attorney general said.

Claim: "When ICE releases illegal immigrants, a lot of those people are not from Honduras and Mexico. Theyre from Iraq and Somalia and Russia."
Evidence Summary: Trump quoted Obama in 2005, as part of a bipartisan effort to address illegal immigration. Obama: "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States, undetected, undocumented, unchecked and circumventing the line of people who are waiting patiently, diligently and lawfully to become immigrants in this country" The former president also said 90 percent of the heroine that comes into our country comes in through the Southern Border. “Show me your plan, not your campaign promise,” he said, adding 41 suspected terrorists crossed into the U.S. from Canada.

Claim: "President Barack Obama suggested on national TV that the Democratic health care bill will have government decide that a healthy, 100-year-old woman in need of a pacemaker should take a pain pill instead."
Evidence Summary: "No American should be forced to violate his or her own conscience in order to abide by the laws and regulations governing our healthcare system," HHS spokesperson Caitlin Oakley said in a statement. A new survey found broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care, including letting some people buy into Medicare or Medicaid. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify.

Claim: "On immigration, the president said 22 times, 22 times, that he couldnt do what he eventually did."
Evidence Summary: "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected, undocumented, unchecked...'” Barrack Obama, 2005," Trump wrote on Sunday, quoting the former president in 2005. "Well, I would just say, do you remember the president's words? A concrete wall 2,000 miles long from sea to shining sea paid for by the Mexicans?" said Jimmy Kimmel. "We have plenty of bad hombres here already," said Colbert. "This is simply another attempt by this president to get his way by doing an end run around Congress," said House Speaker Paul Ryan.

Claim: "When SACS came back to the DeKalb County School District to give a midterm review, we got straight As."
Evidence Summary: The school partnered with the Ventura County Sheriff's Office to fully investigate any threat to the safety of the school. After a "full and thorough investigation," officers concluded there is no active threat to students. "It's discouraging to see the choices students can make, but we can make this a learning opportunity," the school said in a letter to parents and students. The school is planning an assembly this month and that the district plans to pursue further education and awareness opportunities for students across all campuses.

Claim: "In the do-nothing Senate, there are 352 House bills sitting on Harry Reids desk awaiting action, including 55 introduced by Democrats."
Evidence Summary: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has said he will not even consider the bills in his chamber because Trump won't sign them. The House, too, plans to take up six appropriations bills and is also including new border security funding, though not funding for a southern border wall. The Senate, however, will not take up this bill. Instead, McConnell plans to bring up the plan proposed by the White House, which House Democrats have already uniformly rejected. The group of eight House Republicans who voted for all the bills so far includes one who represents more of the southern border than any other member of Congress: Texas Rep. Will Hurd.

Claim: One of the things we found very clearly and consistently is that [video gaming] is a growth industry.
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy added a net total of 155,000 new jobs in November 2018, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. November’s hiring uptick marks the continuation of a historic trend: 98 consecutive months of job growth. Hiring spikes are often indicative of major cultural or technological shifts. The aging baby boomer generation, the proliferation of high-speed internet access, and the alcoholic beverage preferences of the millennial generation all help explain hiring surges in a number of different occupations.

Claim: "Says the Texas Forest Service planted 6,000 trees in the Dallas/Fort Worth area before the Super Bowl for unknown reasons at an unknown cost."
Evidence Summary: Only about 8,800 of the required 20,000 additional trees were planted in 2018. There were several factors, including equipment and staffing issues. “Some poor decisions were made around trees that were planted 50 years ago,” an official says. The city’s TreePhilly program offers up to a dozen types of trees as options and explains which trees are safe to plant around pipes, sidewalks and wires. The trees planted in 2014 by the Greening of Detroit “are well-rooted and they are growing,’ a neighbor says.

Claim: "Romneycare has killed 18,000 Massachusetts jobs."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney's 2020 campaign manager came to his defense almost immediately. Trump, who previously attacked Romney as a "failed candidate" over his 2012 loss to Democrat Barack Obama, had not commented on the op-ed as of early Wednesday morning. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. Romney’s win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump.

Claim: Says Iowa Republican Senate candidate Joni Ernst would privatize Social Security.
Evidence Summary: Joni Ernst says she turned down chance to be Donald Trump's vice-president. The Iowa senator said she believed her husband Gail “hated any successes I have” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi gave the green light for hearings to be held on a single-payer healthcare system. Bernie Sanders introduced a "Medicare for All" bill that would move the U.S. toward asingle-payer system two years ago, but it didn't get a single co-sponsor.

Claim: "When President Obama took office, we were losing 700,000 jobs a month. Now weve had job growth, I think, for 24 consecutive months."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Over 4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump took office, with the lowest unemployment in half a century and earnings rising at the fastest rate in a decade. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Trump does, however, already have one over on Obama. Last year was America's best manufacturing performance since 1997 - since before China joined the World Trade Organization and sucked all those jobs away.

Claim: "We in the Democratic Party had no input into the locations of these hearings, nor did we have input into the process."
Evidence Summary: Lawyers for McCready and the state elections board want the lawsuit dismissed. They say a completed investigation is needed into allegations that mail-in ballots could have been altered or discarded by a Harris subcontractor. The questions surround a political operative in rural Bladen County, Leslie McCrae Dowless, who worked for Harris' campaign at the candidate's insistence. Democrats who this month took control of the U.S. House said they wouldn't seat Harris without an investigation into the allegations.

Claim: "Every year in the United States between 3,000 and 4,500 severe vaccine reactions are reported to the Centers for Disease Control. Not mild reactions. Severe reactions that land somebody in the hospital, the intensive care unit or cause a permanent disability or death."
Evidence Summary: Clark County Council Chair Eileen Quiring declared a public health emergency on Friday in response to the outbreak. Of the 2,600 parents surveyed, 180 had chosen not to have their child vaccinated and two-thirds of those cited side-effects. Scare stories have been promoted by anti-vaxx campaigns, including through a YouTube video, claiming the vaccine had caused severe reactions in thousands of girls and hundreds of deaths. Expert investigations have confirmed that the vaccine is safe. The Royal Society has also recommended that vaccinations should be available in a wider range of locations, including “pop-up” clinics.

Claim: "Obama ""has voted in the United States Senate to increase taxes on people who make as low as $42,000 a year."""
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., recently announced that Democrats should increase the top personal income tax rates as high as 70 percent. That would be the highest income tax rate in the developed world, higher than all of our major trading partners and competitors. For decades polls have shown that most Americans believe no one should pay more than 25 percent of their income in taxes. The Democrats are showing bared teeth and American taxpayers have a history of responding poorly to tax hikes dating back to 1773.

Claim: "Over 200 years ago, the United States had declared war on Islam, and Thomas Jefferson led the charge!"
Evidence Summary: Pompeo delivered his remarks in Cairo, where Obama famously spoke in 2009 and promised a new beginning with Muslim and Arab countries. He was criticized by conservatives for placing too much blame on the U.S. for strife in the region. Pompeo, while not mentioning Obama by name, said that “it was here, in this city, another American stood before you” and “told you that radical Islamist terrorism does not stem from ideology,” he said.

Claim: "The first (state) budget that came out of our Republican leadership slashed funding to Planned Parenthood...It resulted in the reduction of hours, the elimination of days, elimination of access to women in my city and all over my state."
Evidence Summary: At issue is a requirement under President Barack Obama’s health care law that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. Obama officials included exemptions for religious organizations. The Trump administration expanded those exemptions and added “moral convictions’ as a basis to opt out of providing birth control. Abortion opponents don’t want Planned Parenthood to get federal funds because, in many states, it functions as an abortion provider (albeit with non-federal resources) Though Republicans have a slightly larger majority in the new Senate, that majority will still be well short of the 60 votes needed to block any Democratic filibuster. Because Democrats generally support Planned Parenthood, the power shift in the House makes the chances for defunding the organization even slimmer.

Claim: "When the Milwaukee County mental health facility is full, cops sit out there in their squad cars with a mentally ill patient and sometimes spend an entire shift out there doing that."
Evidence Summary: “While police work is often a calling for the men and women within our ranks, it can also be a thankless job,” Johnson said. Johnson also called 2018 “a year of progress” as violent crime dropped by double digits for the second consecutive year. Vallas noted the failure of City Hall leadership that played a role in McDonald’s death. He slammed Mayor Rahm Emanuel for closing mental health clinics and for overseeing a police department that failed to train officers to interact with individuals with mental health challenges.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney is proposing a tax cut that gives an average of $250,000 to every millionaire in this country."
Evidence Summary: Hannity also criticized Trump for his 2017 tax cut, claiming that it gives more than a trillion dollars to billionaires and corporations. Warren called the cuts a "payoff" to donors, claiming the president is obvious in his attempts to create legislation that benefits the wealthy. The idea that wealth “trickles down” from the richest to those less privileged has been bashed by none other than billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who has argued that people like him should pay more in taxes.

Claim: "Says Abortion clinics in Oregon, as in most states, have no state oversight and are not held to basic health or safety standards."
Evidence Summary: As Roe v. Wade turns 46 years old, state legislators across the country are planning more anti-abortion laws. One of the many types of abortion restrictions is a requirement that abortion providers have admitting privileges at a local hospital. The assertion that admitting privileges laws protect patients is yet another false argument advanced by those who seek abortion laws based on ideology, rather than scientific evidence, says Laura Stepp. Stepp: When clinicians can’t obtain admitting privileges, facilities are forced to close and women have to travel further to obtain care.

Claim: "When President AbrahamLincoln signed his Emancipation Proclamation, there were over 300,000 slaveholders who were fighting in the Union army."
Evidence Summary: When the Framers gathered in Philadelphia in 1787 to form a new national government, slavery was, as historians have often remarked, the proverbial witch at the christening. Slavery was so deeply embedded in American life that of the nation’s first 12 presidents, only two—New Englanders John Adams and his son John Quincy Adams—never owned slaves. Even Harriet Beecher Stowe, author of the great anti-slavery book, Harriet Stowe was a slave.

Claim: Eighty-three law enforcement officers have died in the line of duty this year. Twenty-four of them were shot and killed in cold blood.
Evidence Summary: The only cop not killed in the line of duty this year, Shreveport Police Officer Chateri Payne, was shot Wednesday night while preparing to head to work, investigators said. Her funeral has been set for this upcoming Saturday – and the “coward, or cowards” who opened fire at her – in the words of police – have not yet been found. At least 159 officers took their own lives in 2018 — the same number of suicide fatalities it tracked in 2017 and 19 more than in 2016.

Claim: Says the 2012-13 state budget leaves $6 billion in a rainy day fund.
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom proposed a $144 billion general fund budget in his first spending plan Thursday, up 4 percent from the current year. Despite the overall increase, Newsom’s budget includes $13.6 billion to build the state's reserves and to pay down state debt and its growing pension liability. Newsom will release his own revenue estimates along with his budget, which could include an even larger surplus if his economic forecasts are rosier. He did not immediately announce his budget surplus. “We will aim high and we will work like hell to get there,” he said.

Claim: "We closed that plant down. It was a $27 million-dollar plant, operating full steam, and we closed it down."
Evidence Summary: There was a brick plant that started in 1902, and basically cranked out 54,000 handmade bricks a day for 90-some years, and then it closed. Then there was a plastics plant that also employed people in Medora and in the region which was Jackson County and that shut down and so there's really not a lot left.“We’re not going to stop and just say, ‘Oh this is a cost of doing business.’”“That’s what the market was pricing in.”

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama has taken less vacation days than any other president in a generation, while Congress has taken more vacation days than any other Congress in history."
Evidence Summary: Federal workers woke up to a harsh reality on Friday when they did not receive their expected paychecks for the first time. An estimated 800,000 federal employees have been furloughed or are working without pay. The last government shutdown to have lasted this long was the impasse that stretched from December 1995 to January 1996, when President Bill Clinton and the GOP-controlled Congress were at loggerheads. The current shutdown would surpass that record on Saturday, and federal workers would miss their first full paycheck on Friday.

Claim: "Less than two years ago, we made a commitment to repay the U.S. . . .taxpayers in full, and today we made good on that promise."
Evidence Summary: "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he says. "Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling" "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving," he adds. “I took office amid a great ethical, moral and economic crisis. I am committed to changing our history,” he says of his first term. "There are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," Bush says.

Claim: "Sometime in the next decade, there will be more Latinos in the state of Texas than there are Anglos. That will happen sometime in the next five to eight to ten years."
Evidence Summary: "I’m total[ly] for border security. If you live in Texas, you get it. We want people to realize the American dream, but they need to do it legally,” Williams said. "I won’t consider myself to have that great achievement unless we can straighten out your border, and we’re working on it," he said. “Maybe two, three years from now, foreign workers can bring in their families.”

Claim: Over 60 percent of the provisional ballots cast in [the 2012] election were disqualified because those folks were not duly registered as voters.
Evidence Summary: Paper ballots and paper-based machines are more efficient, secure and cost-effective. Paper does not break down and cannot be hacked. There is no reason why so many voters should be forced to use old and faulty machines, some of which do not produce any secure paper ballot. In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. These purges, conducted against citizens for merely having missed an election or two, are a new form of voter suppression.

Claim: "McCain says the price of a gas tax ""holiday"" would be about the same as ""a Bridge to Nowhere (or) another pork barrel project."""
Evidence Summary: Illinois Conservative United board member Jane Carrell sarcastically said that the flight of taxpaying citizens to other states apparently is not going quickly enough. “The worst-kept secret in Springfield is a rumored massive gasoline and diesel tax hike. Just when gas prices are finally falling, and little more than a year after income taxes were hiked 32 percent, greedy politicians seem all too willing to take more of our hard-earned money. It’s just plain wrong,” Skillicorn said.

Claim: "Fences have not worked. The Great Wall of China, the Berlin Wall. That's not good among peoples, especially friends like the United States and Mexico."
Evidence Summary: "The Steel Barrier, or Wall, should have been built by previous administrations long ago. They never got it done - I will. Without it, our Country cannot be safe. Criminals, Gangs, Human Traffickers, Drugs & so much other big trouble can easily pour in. It can be stopped cold!" Mulvaney said. "We’ll fight when necessary against a president who is focused on building walls," he has said. 'Perhaps you can be forgiven for thinking a wall is going to solve a problem," he said.

Claim: 55 percent of the people who cast a provisional ballot (in Florida) in the last presidential election -- their vote did not count.
Evidence Summary: More than half of voters in Pressley-Capuano contest had no record of previous primary voting. 16 percent of vote counting centers relied on tallies transmitted by voting machines instead of hand-counted tallies as required by law. 92 percent of the vote-counting centers it had observed did not post vote tally sheets outside. A suspiciously high number of people requested absentee ballots but never returned them to election officials in Bladen County and Robeson County in North Carolina. The non-return rate in the 9th District was 24 percent, the highest in any of the state's congressional districts.

Claim: "The centerpiece of Senator McCain's education policy is to increase the voucher program in D.C. by 2,000 slots."
Evidence Summary: The law has remained unchanged for a decade, but there's new interest in renewing the bill in the Senate. Democrats also aim to boost money for public schools that serve low-income students and those with disabilities. "We should not be siphoning off taxpayer dollars, which are in demand, to pay for vouchers," said Rep. DeLauro. "Ninety percent of our students are in public schools, and they need more resources to succeed," he said. "I believe investing in our educational system with more funding is of national interest," Valdivia said.

Claim: "Hillary Clintons State Department sent three comedians to India on the Make Chai, Not War tour."
Evidence Summary: Gandhi’s comments drew widespread criticism on social media. Some people said Sitharaman - the second woman to run the defense ministry after the late Indira Gandhi - deserved an apology. Congress rejected the accusations of misogyny, saying Gandhi was a “progressive, inclusive and liberal leader” and that the party believed in gender equality. Pelosi's office also had to cancel a commercial trip to Afghanistan because the Trump administration leaked details of it, undermining security for the lawmakers who planned to go.

Claim: "Currently, the intelligence community can collect business records on law-abiding Americans who have no connection to terrorism."
Evidence Summary: The danger of mission creep in NYPD surveillance with its powerful new tools is most acute for Muslim and immigrant New Yorkers. Trump’s campaign threat of a Muslim American registry, and his ongoing efforts to target our must vulnerable neighbors for deportation, have made both of these communities even more fearful of data sharing between city officials and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. There should be heightened urgency around building better modes of cooperation between the public and private sectors so that Washington begins to treat ordinary data as the crucial national security asset it is.

Claim: "Even though Chicago has the most stringent gun laws on the books, it still has the highest murder rate in the country."
Evidence Summary: The weekend of Aug. 4, 2018, brought a stunning surge in gun violence to Chicago. 75 people shot, 13 of them fatally. That compared to 660 homicides in 2017 and more than 770 in 2016. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has accused Trump of oversimplifying the problem and potential solutions."We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control and ultimately fuel serious violence," Emanuel said. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public."

Claim: "Every time weve cut the capital gains tax, the economy has grown. Whenever we raise the capital gains tax, its been damaged."
Evidence Summary: As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit, which now appears on track to top $1 trillion this year. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth. But conservatives have warned that high taxes on the very rich will stifle growth, lead to capital flight, and produce relatively minor revenue gains.

Claim: Says Rep. Renee Ellmers voted for the government shutdown 21 times.
Evidence Summary: Rep. Donna Shalala was Secretary of Health and Human Services during the longest shutdown in 1995. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, posted a video to Twitter saying there is no need for the shutdown. Former Republican Congresswoman Barbara Comstock said "both sides are playing games" at the expense of the country's national security and economy. "We need a win for the federal employees," Comstock told Powerhouse Politics podcast host, ABC News' Chief White House and Washington Correspondent Jonathan Karl.

Claim: I havent switched my position on the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.
Evidence Summary: On the campaign trail, then Republican candidate Donald Trump regularly railed against the TPP trade deal. Trump made good on his campaign promise and pulled out of the trade deal as soon as he took office. Despite the U.S. abandoning this pact, the deal has now gone into effect, and it's giving the 11 member-countries a competitive edge. The remaining 11 partners in the TPP are now wondering what to do about the deal, which would have brought together the economies of 12 countries.

Claim: "Theres a tremendous tax that we pay when we (American businesses) go into China, whereas when China sells to us theres no tax."
Evidence Summary: By the end of last year, China exported $324bn more in goods and services to the US than it imported. That's a record surplus, more than a quarter bigger than it was before Mr Trump came to power. The focus of Mr Trump's ire has primarily been that China is selling the US more than it should, while using unfair means to limit US imports. But even if American exports to China fell by half, it would be the equivalent of less than one-half of 1 percent of gross domestic product.

Claim: "Health care reform ""requires the use of federal dollars to fund abortions through the government-run health plan."""
Evidence Summary: Planned Parenthood receives funding from several sources. About 41 percent of its funding comes in the form of federal government reimbursements and grants. The majority of Planned Parenthood's federal funding comes from Medicaid. Such federal funding can cover many of the health services Planned Parenthood provides. But it cannot cover abortions, except in cases of rape, incest or when the mother's life is in danger.. The Supreme Court upheld in 1991 a similar set of restrictions that were never implemented in the U.S. A judge blocked the change from going into effect Monday.

Claim: "A lot of what (Cubas) survival depends on is Venezuelan oil money, which is drying up."
Evidence Summary: UN chief António Guterres appealed for dialogue in Venezuela to avoid the political crisis spiralling out of control. Cuba expressed its support, with the state newspaper Granma saying that by recognising Guaido as interim president, Trump “is directing a coup d’état” Cuba is hugely dependent on Venezuelan petroleum paid for with doctors. “Sovereign governments have the possibility to decide whatever they want,” the UN secretary-general said on a Facebook Live broadcast from Davos.

Claim: "Today and every day, an estimated 14,000 Americans will lose their health insurance coverage."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. Before the health care law’s major pieces went into effect during 2014, the uninsured rate peaked at 18 percent. But in the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent, not far from today's mark.

Claim: "Since President Obama came into office, another 2 million Hispanics have joined the ranks of those in poverty. The number of Hispanic children living in poverty increased by 15 percent in that short period of time."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump remembered his black and Hispanic constituents and what’s good for us — as he sees it. As an African-American who cares about closing income gaps between advantaged and disadvantaged groups, I appreciated the shoutout. History shows the public tends to turn against immigrants at times of high unemployment, quite the opposite of the currently vigorous national employment rates. President has a right to toot his own horns during good economic times because, heaven knows, they’ll get the blame when things turn sour.

Claim: "In its current state, this bill is the most restrictive voter ID legislation in the nation."
Evidence Summary: The bill, HB 6595, severely curtails direct democracy in Michigan. It disproportionately disenfranchises minority voters. It is inconsistent with the Michigan Constitution and should be struck down. Michigan’s constitution, like many states’, reserves for “the people” the power to directly change the law. The judge also struck down a law passed during the lame duck session that requires a 2-year expiration date on student IDs used for identification at the polls, as well as a law that limits the use of receipts as valid voter identification.

Claim: "Says as GOP was picking a convention city, I recommended Ohio."
Evidence Summary: Trump's 2020 campaign met with the Pennsylvania GOP on Thursday. It was the first such meeting this year, underscoring the importance of the state to Trump's reelection efforts. The sit-down came weeks ahead of the Pennsylvania Republican Party's winter meeting, where different factions of the party could clash. Trump, the first Republican presidential nominee to win Pennsylvania since 1988, defeated Hillary Clinton by fewer than 45,000 votes in the 2016 election. The subcommittee plans to team up for hearings with the House Judiciary and Homeland Security committees and meet this month with stakeholders.

Claim: "By spring 2014, parents of 60,000 students in New York state had refused to let them take the Common Core Tests."
Evidence Summary: Teachers in Los Angeles public schools went on strike last week. They are demanding more money for the lousy job their system does at providing an education. The district is over 70 percent Latino or Hispanic, serving many non-English-speaking families. In 2017, only 40 percent of students in the school district met national standards for literacy. Only an abysmal 30 percent met math standards in the LAUSD in the same year. The language and cultural barriers for some parents don't help, either.

Claim: Congressman Perriello voted in lock step with Nancy Pelosi 90 percent of the time.
Evidence Summary: Nancy Pelosi won her old job as House speaker with 220 votes out of 430. But 15 Democrats – many of them newly elected lawmakers – didn’t cast a vote for Pelosi, with 12 of those lawmakers voting for someone other than her. The new Congress ushers in a Democratic House majority with newly elected progressive firebrands like New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Others getting votes from Democrats included former Vice President Joe Biden, Georgia Rep. John Lewis, former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams and Florida Rep. Stephanie Murphy.

Claim: "In (Sen. Marco) Rubios state of Florida alone, Social Security lifts more than -- count it -- a million people out of poverty."
Evidence Summary: Among Trump's base, the undifferentiated loathing for an allegedly malign government matches passion for the wall. Much of this animus is rooted in a race-based contempt for the allegedly useless “other” A companion myth is that support for low-income families is sucking America dry. Democrats should frame their economic agenda in a truly progressive and race forward manner, writes Julian Zelizer, the co-founder of the Center for American Progress. The Baby Bonds and LIFT proposals would remedy this by boosting wealth and paychecks, respectively.

Claim: "But for immigrants, we would have a contracting population..."
Evidence Summary: In 1965, when Congress got rid of national-origin quotas, America’s foreign-born made up around 5 percent of the population. Over two decades from 1980 to 2000, this proportion rose to 11.1 percent, from 6.2 percent. But then the rate of increase slowed to a crawl, rising from 11. 1 percent in 2000 to 12.9 percent in 2010 and then barely inching to 13.5 percent in 2016. A good yardstick for whether a country is admitting too many or too few immigrants — beyond the political mood of the moment — is its economic needs.

Claim: "Rhode Island gives undocumented pregnant women health insurance, plus a cash card with $400 a month on it and $250 a month or $275 a month to spend on food."
Evidence Summary: New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced a plan to provide health care for 600,000 uninsured, low-income and undocumented immigrant New Yorkers. The initiative raises more questions than answers: Just how will the plan work, and would that sum -- which comes out to a modest $170 per person -- really be enough to pay for what sounds like a massive increase in benefits. California and the other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. The plan builds on the city's existing public-option health insurance program called MetroPlus.

Claim: "Team Trump has accused Ted Cruz of fraud in Iowa, Texas, Colorado, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Kansas, Maine, Utah and Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: Paulafort's lawyers say prosecutors have unfairly accused him of lying in his sessions with them. Sen. Ted Cruz says the focus on special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation is a Washington-centric fascination. Cruz says Trump's record shows he has been "tougher" on the U.S. adversary than past presidents. The Wall Street Journal reported that Cohen offered a tech firm $50,000 to rig CNBC and Drudge poll results in favor of Trump — at Trump’s direction.

Claim: "Under economic sanctions, now Iran is suffering 30 percent inflation, 20 percent unemployment."
Evidence Summary: U.S. President Donald Trump last year pulled out of an international pact on Iran’s nuclear program and re-imposed sanctions. “The sanctions do put pressure on the country and the people,” Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said on Wednesday. The measures have hit Iran's economy hard, NPR's Peter Kenyon reports. The Iranian government, while unhappy, remains as obstreperous as ever, Kenyon says, and even Tehran admits the sanctions are hitting hard.

Claim: "Says that as Wisconsin governor, we ended welfare."
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide.

Claim: "In the 18th Congressional District, 100% of electric generation comes from coal."
Evidence Summary: "Coal is one of the dirtiest fossil fuels and it belongs in the history books, not in an energy system for the 21st century," Pritzker says. "Our energy future must be based on energy-saving and renewable energy, not on more fossil fuels," he adds. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," Darin says. Texas receives 24 percent of its electrical power from coal.

Claim: Up to 45 percent of illegal immigrants are not people that physically crossed the southern border or northern border. They are visa overstayers.
Evidence Summary: Most illegal immigration is from visa 'overstayers', not people crossing the border. Canadians were the highest group of overstayers, followed by Mexicans and Brazilians. In 2014, visa overstays accounted for two-thirds of all new undocumented immigrants. Using deportation data from ICE, which tracks how immigrants arrive in the U.S., Vaughan estimates that visaoverstays comprise somewhere between 40 and 50 percent of the undocumented immigration population. "Both modes of entry are a big problem," said Vaughan.

Claim: "Charlie Crist ""worked with Acorn"" to give felons voting rights."
Evidence Summary: The amendment says voting rights are restored “upon completion of all terms of sentence including parole or probation,” but it’s not immediately clear what “all terms” of a criminal sentence are. Local election officials say they haven’t gotten any guidance from state election officials, but many say they will register any voter who swears on their voter registration form that they are eligible to vote. Nearly half of the individuals having their voting rights restored are black or Latino, at 29.6 percent and 20 percent, respectively.

Claim: "This year, we have added an average of 200,000 jobs per month, a majority in the private sector, a stark contrast to the Bush Administration record of losing an average of nearly 750,000 jobs per month in its last three months."
Evidence Summary: Average monthly job creation for 2018 was 220,000. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Obama, who was elected in the teeth of the worst recession in living memory, added 10m jobs in his two years in office. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created added under Trump, compared to a net loss of over 200,000 under Obama. Last year was America's best manufacturing performance since 1997.

Claim: "Obama thinks the national anthem should be ""I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing."""
Evidence Summary: Obama's remarks do not support Trump's proposal for a border wall, which the former president has criticized. Instead, Obama was asking Congress to approve an emergency appropriation to deal with the surge. Trump has made 7,600 false or misleading statements since he became president, and some have proved more difficult than others to fact-check. He doesn't need people telling him, for example, that we don’t need the wall we can do it with drones or technology, he says.

Claim: "Right now, America has $1.1 trillion of student debt. Thats more than credit card debt."
Evidence Summary: Washington already owns or guarantees $1.4 trillion in student loan debt to nearly 43 million borrowers. Students are regularly taking more than four years to graduate. The federal government, wittingly or not, has helped make universities' tuition hikes possible by subsidizing student debt. The new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt, that this is a savage society we now live in, says Julian Zelizer.

Claim: "Twice as much (federal) money is going back to Hawaii, Virginia and Alaska than is coming home to Oregon."
Evidence Summary: Historically, the states most dependent on federal funds (“takers”) tend to vote Republican. The states paying more than they receive in Federal funding tend toVote for Democrats. So, find ways to cut the federal dole to “taker” states and return more money to ‘maker’ states (and start by restoring the State and Local Tax Deduction). As an added benefit, we’ll get to hear nonsensical GOP explanations of why its views on ‘makers’ and ‘takers' were never intended to apply to incompetently-run Republican states.

Claim: "If you tried to pay out $1 trillion by handing it out at $1 per second, it would take more than 31,000 years."
Evidence Summary: “There’s actually a lot of economics that it's not necessarily going to hurt growth and I think we have to examine it more closely," says Richard Schlesinger. “It is between the many, who do the work, create the wealth and pay taxes, and the few, who set the rules, reap the rewards and so often dodge taxes,” says Tony Blinken. "We have extraordinary resources in this country. And with those resources, with that success I think comes a certain amount of responsibility to at least do our part in advancing the common good," he says.

Claim: You cant put a gun rack in a [Chevrolet] Volt.
Evidence Summary: Police say they found three loaded guns in the car. No one had the required conceal-carry permits, and the people had outstanding warrants. The city argues that dangers arise when gun owners transport their weapons. But anyone transporting a firearm in the city has to keep it locked, unloaded and inaccessible in transit, which is a protection against rash choices.Successful armored car robberies are also infrequent because the vehicles, which weigh up to 25,000 pounds and are made of hardened steel with bullet-resistant windows, are tough to crack.

Claim: Newt Gingrich says electric co-ops and credit unions are government-sponsored enterprises like Freddie Mac.
Evidence Summary: Most mortgages are considered conventional loans, meaning they aren't backed by the federal government. However, they are facilitated by government-sponsored enterprises, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. As private companies, Fannie and Freddie aren't directly affected by the shutdown. Mortgage processing is continuing as usual, except in cases where the government provides information required for underwriting. "The IRS has not been processing 4506-T tax transcripts — tax return verifications — which are required on most files, although that service is restarting," Rood says.

Claim: "Attempts to find things like, crime, criminal activity, indictment, have been filtered out by Google in favor of Hillary Clinton."
Evidence Summary: Human-rights activists planned to protest outside Google offices in 10 countries Friday. They want the company to scrap the censored search engine it developed for the Chinese market. The Stop Google Censorship campaign comprises a coalition of groups representing communities that have faced persecution by the Chinese government. Sen. Kamala Harris says it's a "false choice" to decide between supporting the police and advocating for greater scrutiny of law enforcement. The argument is aimed at liberal critics of her record who argue she was sometimes too quick to side with the police.

Claim: "If we choose Obamacare expansion, 600,000 will lose eligibility for their subsidies, of which 257,000 would be forced into Medicaid."
Evidence Summary: The administration estimated that the government would save about $900 million a year on subsidies, and that 100,000 consumers would drop their coverage. A prominent Democrat criticized the administration's move on premiums. "Today's proposed rule deliberately and needlessly increases premiums and will result in too many Americans losing access to health coverage," Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon said in a statement. Instead of the traditional open-ended entitlement, states would get spending limits, along with more flexibility to run the low-income health program.

Claim: "Says the U.S. Postal Service has taken no taxpayer aid since 1971, funds operations entirely from the sale of stamps and related products and makes an operational profit year after year."
Evidence Summary: Mailing a card or letter will cost more than ever starting Jan. 27. It marked the 12th year in a row the agency reported a loss despite growth in package shipping. Taxes do not fund the USPS; the agency runs on the sale of its products and services. In December 2017, President Donald Trump criticized the USPS via Twitter, suggesting that shipping costs were too low. For more information about the postal price changes, go online to USPS.com. Back to the page you came from.

Claim: Drug overdoses are now the second-most common cause of death in New Hampshire.
Evidence Summary: Americans now have a 1 in 96 chance of dying from an opioid overdose, the National Safety Council says. The probability of dying in a motor vehicle crash is 1 in 103. Fentanyl is now the drug most often responsible for drug overdose deaths, the CDC says. A high concentration of those deaths occurred in mid-Atlantic states and Midwestern ones like Wisconsin. But tough obstacles and many miles often separate those suffering with opioid addiction from reaching outpatient programs that provide medication-assisted treatment or a clinician.

Claim: "Congressman Cicilline, when he was the mayor of Providence, espoused a sanctuary city."
Evidence Summary: Rhode Island Rep. David Cicilline is a rising star in the Democratic Party. He is a new face for House leadership and has an elevated profile on cable news. "As mayor, you don't have a choice, you have to listen," he said. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, part of the all-Democrat Rhode Island delegation, told ABC News that Cicillin is "well respected" around the Capitol. "From protecting our healthcare to securing investments in infrastructure, David spends every day in Washington fighting to make our state better," she said.

Claim: [L]ess than one-tenth of Atlantas transportation needs are covered in a referendum to levy a 1-cent sales tax.
Evidence Summary: Indiana school districts can put two types of property tax hikes on the ballot. The proposed bill would allow schools to levy up to $.05 per $100 valuation for up to 10 years, rather than 7 or 8 years in existing referendums. Only 9% of all respondents were opposed to the visitor levy in Edinburgh. A state agency estimates it could raise up to £150 million statewide, based on 2018 assessed property values. Lake County levy estimates range from nearly $80,000 for River Forest to about $2 million for Lake Central.

Claim: "Says Chris Abele, opponent in Milwaukee County executive race, failed to finish 3 separate colleges, dropping out all 3 times."
Evidence Summary: All nine Waukegan District 60 candidates faced at least one objection heading into the first of four days of electoral board hearings Wednesday. Alonzo Jenkins, the last of nine candidates to face an objection attempting to knock them from the race, was successful. Millburn District 24 candidate Carissa Casbon was also successful in her fight to stay on the ballot. Woodland District 50 candidate Renea Amen, North Shore District 112 candidate Kirk Samson and Ela Area Public Library candidate Susan Nielsen were not.

Claim: "Obama says Iran is a 'tiny' country, 'doesn't pose a serious threat.'"
Evidence Summary: No Islamic country is better positioned than Iran to play a leading role in the Middle East. But that potential has been stunted because of Iran’s continued meddling in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Lebanon. The commentariat and the Democrats in exile are aghast, and insist that such bellicosity will only invite belligerence from Iran. But the truth is that when dealing with Iran, threats usually work while blandishments only whet the appetite of the mullahs who run the country.

Claim: "Says that Mitt Romney, while he was in Arizona, said he believes the states SB 1070 immigration law should be the model for national immigration laws."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote an anti-Trump op-ed in The Washington Post on Tuesday. Romney is just days away from being sworn in as a junior senator in Utah. The former Massachusetts governor has flip-flopped on his support for Trump in the past, but pledged to stand against the president during his Senate bid and speak his mind if he disagreed with White House policies. Trump, who previously attacked Romney as a "failed candidate" over his 2012 loss to Democrat Barack Obama, had not commented on the op-eds as of early Wednesday morning.

Claim: "The state of Georgia lost 16 percent of its employees last year, and that percentage has risen over the past three years."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. There are undeniable truths in all these numbers. The solutions cannot be limited to new revenue raised by expanded gambling and legalizing recreational marijuana. Employers want deeper workers’ compensation reform and property tax relief.

Claim: "Cicilline continues to accept hundreds of thousands of dollars in lobbyist, corporate PAC and insider money to fund his campaign."
Evidence Summary: Cicilline helped launch a congressional antitrust caucus and is the lead sponsor of key antitrust reform bills. He intends to host hearings to build a record and obtain analysis from experts. Cicilline was one of a number of members who pushed for the inclusion of strong antitrust principles in the Democratic Party’s midterm policy platform. He told Facebook that it “cannot be trusted to regulate itself” and got Google CEO Sundar Pichai to admit that Google was considering launching a search engine in China.

Claim: "Every year since Gov. Walker and the Republicans have been in control of the Legislature weve created fewer jobs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics."
Evidence Summary: Unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9%, but only because more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon, saying the "tremendous" jobs number was partly due to companies such as auto manufacturers repatriating.

Claim: "Well over 90 percent of felony cases, all over the nation, are committed by defendants who grew up in father-absent households."
Evidence Summary: As a prosecutor, she also created a intervention program to give job training to low-level drug offenders. As a senator, she fought juvenile solitary confinement as a senator. Threatening to jail parents of kids who missed school was one of her "smart on crime" strategies. She argued that 94% of San Francisco’s young homicide victims were high school dropouts. He found that undocumented immigrants still committed crimes at a rate “32 percent below that of native-born Americans.”

Claim: "For his first interview as president, Barack Obama chose Arab TV for an apology."
Evidence Summary: Egypt tried to block the broadcast of an interview by CBS News with President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. The network refused and will broadcast the interview on Sunday. The Washington Post’s Baghdad bureau chief, Tamer El-Ghobashy, speculates that Sissi's remarks on Egypt's partnership with Israel likely prompted the retraction. The Egyptian government has expressed no remorse for such behavior and has faced almost no consequences from the United Nations or a single foreign government.

Claim: "Georgia is on track for 1,200 traffic fatalities this year, a reversal of nine years of declines."
Evidence Summary: The number of traffic fatalities in the United States fell by about 2 percent in 2017, but that followed increases in deaths in 2016 and 2015. Pedestrian deaths have been at a 25-year high, according to the Governors Highway Safety Association. A 2017 study found that an average of 13 people a day were killed by cars between 2005 and 2014, and that people of color and the elderly are disproportionately at risk. "We now have to do a far better job of building our infrastructure to accommodate all road users," Kolosh said.

Claim: "Obama served on a board with former Weather Underground member William Ayers and ""that relationship with Mr. Ayers on this board continued after 9/11."""
Evidence Summary: Walter Schaub led the Office of Government Ethics for more than three years. Schaub repeatedly engaged with incendiary, partisan content on his personal Facebook and Twitter accounts over the past five years. At least two Democratic senators called on him to resign. "What kind of maniacs are running this country? pic.twitter.com/0glVs2ee25 — Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) December 31, 2018More: 'Hold fast, alongside our allies': Read Jim Mattis' farewell letter.

Claim: "For Social Security, which is projected to remain solvent through 2033, Whitehouse has cosponsored [a bill that] . . . would extend the life of the program by an additional 75 years."
Evidence Summary: As deficits balloon following their tax cuts, GOP leaders suggest curbing the massive Social Security and Medicare programs. But the demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget, and the government projects the number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. That's why Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who advised President George W. Bush, agrees that governments led by either party will eventually need more revenue.

Claim: "A single parent with a couple kids can easily get $35,000 a year in public assistance in Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: A report found that more than two in five households in New York City lacked the income to cover necessities. But just a third of those households were considered poor by measures used by the federal government. The authors of the report calculated a self-sufficiency standard, meant to determine how much income is now required to meet basic needs. A single parent with two-school age children, for example would need to make nearly $69,427 a year, according to City Harvest’s Self-Sufficiency calculator.

Claim: "We passed without, frankly, the help of the Republican caucus, we passed 25 tax cuts last year, mostly aimed at the middle class and small businesses."
Evidence Summary: "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," Bush says. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he adds. "Not just the people who aren't getting paychecks but also the businesses being hamstrung by this shutdown," he says. “The government really needs to get together and work this out.”

Claim: Under the Iran deal: If Israel attacks Iran were supposed to be on Irans side.
Evidence Summary: The Israeli military said early on Monday that it had started attacking Iranian military targets in Syria. “We have started striking Iranian Quds targets in Syrian territory,” the military said in a statement, referring to the branch of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps that is responsible for foreign operations. The attacks near Damascus came within hours of Israel intercepting an incoming missile over the Golan Heights. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel acknowledged that Israeli forces had just attacked Iranian weapons warehouses in Syria last week. Until now Israel has largely refrained from public admissions of military operations in neighboring Syria.

Claim: Says Sen. Pat Toomey even tried to shut down the federal government in order to eliminate funding for Planned Parenthood.
Evidence Summary: Anti-abortion activists want to ban organizations such as Planned Parenthood, which offer abortions, from receiving any public money for reproductive health services. The Trump administration has proposed blocking such groups from getting funds through Title X, the federal family planning program for low-income people. A final rule is expected any day that would cut off a significant part of Planned Parenthood’s federal funding — not from Medicaid but from the Title X Family Planning Program. Planned Parenthood has said it is likely to sue over the new rules when they are finalized.

Claim: "During the year Kagan barred military recruiters from Harvard Law School's Office of Career Services, ""military recruiting actually went up."""
Evidence Summary: The Pentagon is developing a plan to scrutinize prospective recruits with foreign ties, including some U.S. citizens. A related effort targeting thousands of green-card holders was blocked by a federal judge last year. The new policy, still in development, will be distributed to the military services by no later than Feb. 15, according to two defense officials and several Defense Department memos. The Pentagon is grappling with the dual challenge of thoroughly screening prospective recruits for potential security threats and finding enough men and women willing to join the military.

Claim: "In the primary election, a right-wing group spent more than $100,000,000 to support Supreme Court Justice Rebecca Bradley."
Evidence Summary: The Food and Drug Administration is accusing Juul and Altria of reneging on promises they made to the government to keep e-cigarettes away from minors. Liberal groups accounted for 54% of the $150 million in dark-money spending in last year’s election cycle. For the first time since the 2010 Citizens United decision, which paved way to unrestricted spending by dark money groups, conservative groups spent less than their liberal counterparts. According to Issue One, since 2010, such groups spent at least $960 million and will undoubtedly exceed $1 billion during the 2020 election.

Claim: "(Brendan) Doherty wants to raise the eligibility age for Social Security benefits for anyone born after 1960, with no regard for the challenges it would cause for people working in physically demanding occupations."
Evidence Summary: By 2040, nearly one in seven people living in Britain will be over 75. The number of people living to 90 and beyond has almost trebled in the past 30 years. The landscape of rights and prohibitions for older people is a mess. We need to allow people to go on working if they wish to do so, to get access to healthcare that could improve their lives, to live later life to the full, and to continue to play an active role in society. The new retirement: how an ageing population is transforming Britain.

Claim: Every time [the people from Newport Tent] work in a city or town they have a whole different set of permits that they have to get in order to pitch a tent.
Evidence Summary: Tinley Park has just a handful of homes offering short-term rentals. Village planning manager: “This is a big industry’ Licensing fees could mirror current fees the village assesses for long-term rental. Residents living near one property had complained to the village about large parties being held at the home. The encampments are often dismissed as a nuisance and eyesore, and they can be prone to life-threatening hazards, health problems and conflicts. But some occupants said the camps function better for them than sheds or overcrowded shelters.

Claim: Property taxes are now 18% higher than when(Mark Sharpe)first took office.
Evidence Summary: Bruce Rauner tried to freeze property taxes. Democrats will raise taxes so high that you’ll be held captive. As if the prices are not high enough, about 60 drug companies increased prices for 2019. Cook County’s regressive property tax assessment system that burdens low-income communities and benefits wealthier ones went unchecked for decades until a 2017 Tribune series exposed its imbalance. Democrats in the legislature had ignored it, along with a school funding formula that punished communities lacking in property wealth. This is the government that is driving families and businesses away.

Claim: "The firefighter and police officer pension system is not headed for bankruptcy, far from it. Thats because New Jersey first responders -- fire fighters and police officers -- have never missed making payments to the retirement system."
Evidence Summary: The California Legislature was putting together a bill that calls for $1 billion for fire management over the next five years. Some of the federal employees who participate in that joint planning have been missing since late December because of the shutdown. The 50,000 retired members of the U.S. Coast Guard are at risk of not receiving their pension payments in two weeks as the longest government shutdown in history continues with no end in sight. That would be in addition to the 42,000 active-duty Coast Guard members who already missed their regularly scheduled paycheck on Tuesday.

Claim: "Here are the stats: Per population, we kill each other with guns at a rate 297x more than Japan, 49x more than France, 33x more than Israel."
Evidence Summary: Virtually without exception, more guns equals more violence. Studies from the U.S. and around the world consistently show increases in firearm ownership and carrying are positively correlated with increases in homicide and suicide. In Brazil, a 1 percent rise in firearm availability increases the homicide rate by 2 percent. Brazilian households with firearms had at 44 percent higher risk of homicide than those without. There is virtually no evidence to support the idea that expanding access to firearms increases individual safety and security. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," Cohen says.

Claim: "The United States is about 100th in voter turnout among the industrialized nations, and Texas is near the bottom in terms of voter registration and voter turnout."
Evidence Summary: With voters increasingly aware of the powerful impact of gerrymandering and doubtful about the fairness of elections, voting issues have become central to politics in key states. Questions about the health of American democracy are being raised in areas once thought to be wholly nonpartisan. Groups that work to mobilize more Hispanics to vote are accelerating and adjusting strategies for registering and turning out Latino voters earlier. California has been very intentional about improving voter turnout, adopting methods such as registering 16- and 17-year-olds and modernizing how its elections are conducted.

Claim: "Under Barack Obama's plan, the government would spend $1-trillion more."
Evidence Summary: Obama’s plan is a “classic example of why you don’t want the federal government getting involved in industry,” Edwards said. “This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors. Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling," he said. The White House has refused to give details on how it would spend the $1 trillion in stimulus money. The proposal is a blueprint of Trumpian proportions.

Claim: "In 2011, NJ economy ranked 47th--at the bottom with Alabama, Mississippi Wyoming. Under Christie, NJ is falling behind."
Evidence Summary: Gross domestic product increased 3.4 percent in the third quarter of 2018, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Hassett said he is not concerned about the potential economic impact because, he predicted, the economy would bounce back once the government reopens. The incomplete data is making it difficult to get a good read on the economy, and analysts have said that could complicate policy decisions. Economists also said the impasse in Washington could be hurting business confidence, pointing to a separate report from the New York Fed on Tuesday.

Claim: "Theres never been a (U.S. Supreme Court) vacancy in the last, I think, 30 years, lasting longer than 237 days."
Evidence Summary: The White House also announced its intention to renominate 51 judges who did not get through the previous Congress. Tuesday was the 46th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. If they succeed in seating these six prospective jurists, President Donald Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will gain the distinction of having seated only the 3,130th through 3,135th white men to be given lifetime appointments on the federal bench. "It would be wildly speculative to talk about a third vacancy at this point," said Slattery.

Claim: "Oregon families pay an extra $1,400 a year on higher insurance premiums to cover those who do not have insurance."
Evidence Summary: Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014. Premiums for people on the ObamaCare exchanges have been rising rapidly since their creation. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act.

Claim: "As soon as Chris Christie was governor, he gave tax cuts to millionaires."
Evidence Summary: Scott Walker attempted to mock Ocasio-Cortez’s proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million with an analogy, but she used his own joke against him. Explaining marginal taxes to a far-right former Governor:Imagine if you did chores for abuela & she gave you $10. When you got home, you got to keep it, because it's only $10’ Then we taxed the billionaire in town because he's making tons of money underpaying the townspeople.

Claim: "Over 80 percent of our trade deficit today is with countries that are not trade agreement partners, that are not level playing fields for the United States."
Evidence Summary: An overwhelming number of intelligence, defense and law enforcement officials have said in recent months that China poses the thorniest and most significant long-term strategic challenge to the United States. "I give [Mr. Trump] some points for trying a different playbook, but the way he's played it, I think, is making things worse, not better," Blinken told Morell. But for decades, America's trade policy, supported by establishment Democrats as well as establishment Republicans, helped the people at the top.

Claim: "The measles vaccine has killed 108 people in the last decade, while no one has died of measles."
Evidence Summary: A measles outbreak in southwestern Washington state has grown to 16 confirmed cases. Most of the children affected are unimmunized against the disease. The World Health Organisation has included such movements – which it called “vaccine hesitancy’ – among its top 10 global health threats for 2019. The effects of what WHO called "vaccine Hesitancy" are already significant. For example, cases of measles have surged 30 percent worldwide in recent years, despite an effective vaccine that can prevent it.

Claim: "For our next two years in my state, we will end with a structural surplus of $499 million."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job. His new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. The nonpartisan legislative analyst projected in November that lawmakers would have a $15 billion surplus to allocate next year. He did not immediately announce his budget surplus. “We will aim high and we will work like hell to get there,” he said in his inaugural address Monday. The approximately $170 billion spending plan Gov. Andrew Cuomo is set to introduce Tuesday will include a slate of other proposals.

Claim: "Says that during President Barack Obamas tenure, the United States has created 15 million new jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created added under Trump, compared to a net loss of over 200,000 under Obama. Last year was America's best manufacturing performance since 1997 - before China joined the World Trade Organization and sucked all those jobs away.

Claim: President Barack Obama ordered our military to enlist illegal aliens.
Evidence Summary: Defense officials declined to comment on the memos, saying the new policy is undergoing legal reviews and that some changes could be made. The Pentagon is grappling with the dual challenge of thoroughly screening prospective recruits for potential security threats and finding enough men and women willing to join the military. The Armed Forces have long sought green-card holders as recruits, marketing such jobs as a chance to attain U.S. citizenship. The new initiative comes as the Trump administration continues to take unprecedented steps to curb immigration to the United States.

Claim: "A government panel that didn't include cancer specialists says women shouldn't receive mammograms until age 50...If government takes over health care, recommendations like these could become the law for all kinds of diseases."
Evidence Summary: Most insurance companies raise the costs for older people, despite evidence that people in their 70s are less likely to make a claim. A large proportion of the 55,000 breast cancers diagnosed each year in the NHS have been in women at increased risk of disease. It could be a game changer for breast cancer because now we can identify large numbers of women with different levels of risk – not just women who are at high risk. For example, some women may need additional appointments with their doctor to discuss screening or prevention options and others may just need advice on their lifestyle and diet.

Claim: "This governor has cut funding repeatedly for people who have AIDS, who need drugs to save their life."
Evidence Summary: Maine Gov. Janet Mills signed an executive order to expand the state’s Medicaid program. The move would extend health care coverage to tens of thousands more low-income residents. Drug overdoses killed a record 70,000 people in the U.S. in 2017. Mills said her administration would create a director of opiate response to “marshal the collective power and resources of state government,” in honor of the 418 Maine residents who died of drug overdoses that year.

Claim: "We have dozens of districts that go for 150 to 200 miles, splitting counties, splintering cities and connecting areas that have very little in common."
Evidence Summary: "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes," he says. "That would not have been possible without the support of the residents of Harris County." "We're diverse, but we all come together when we’ve got to get things done," he adds. "It has to encompass all parts of the country.” "We think there’s opportunities for greater access in some places. Obviously what's missing right now is infrastructure"

Claim: The latest Quinnipiac poll found that nearly six-in-ten Americans oppose ObamaCare -- 30% support the law and 57% oppose it.
Evidence Summary: 75 percent of Americans -- including 56 percent of self-described Democrats -- also opposed taxpayer funding of abortion overseas. Just 30 percent of respondents favored a Supreme Court ruling allowing unrestricted abortion. The poll's release coincided with Friday's 46th annual March for Life in Washington. Less than half of those surveyed are aware that a federal judge in Texas ruled in December that the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, is invalid. More than two-thirds of Americans don’t think the wall should be a priority, according to a poll.

Claim: "When (Joe Kyrillos) had an opportunity to vote for women in terms of their health care, not once, not twice, but six times, he voted against womens health care in our state."
Evidence Summary: “I am awed and honored as I stand before you today and am proud to be representing the 14th District,” Underwood said. “It’s fitting that I be in this place that nurtured my development and prepared me for this journey.” “I’ve been in Girl Scouts my whole life where we pledged to help people at all times. The lessons I have learned here gave me the courage to act.’ “Solidarity is something we, the women voters, must perform. Women politicians are free to ignore our rights and needs whenever it suits them,’ Cuomo said.

Claim: "When it comes to classified information at the State Department, Hillary Clintons the decider."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., told President Donald Trump's nominee to be the next attorney general that he must be capable of telling the president "no" "He must have the integrity, the strength and the fortitude to tell the president 'no,' regardless of the consequences," Feinstein said in her opening remarks at the Senate confirmation hearing for William Barr. A federal judge ruled that Susan Rice and Ben Rhodes must answer written questions about the State Department's response to the deadly 2012 terror attack in Benghazi, Libya.

Claim: "Right now, Im polling at about 8 percent against Barack Obama and Mitt Romney."
Evidence Summary: A 57 percent majority of Trump voters believe that most or all of the congressional GOP supports Trump. At the peak of infighting between Congress and the White House in 2017, just 42 percent said the same. If pushed to choose whom they’d be more likely to support in a political discussion between Trump and congressional Republicans, Trump voters currently say by a 64-percentage-point margin that they would back the president. The poll was taken at the beginning of the month, just after Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) lambasted the president in an editorial.

Claim: "In the 38 Studios deal, Wall Street investors took a risk, and went bust."
Evidence Summary: The deficit did not indicate major problems for the bank, but it showed that, however vague, investors’ worries about the future can have a measurable impact on a big corporation’s results. Furious activity in the financial markets can sometimes help companies that are close to Wall Street by generating more business for them. “Clients — investors and corporate clients — waited on the sidelines,” he said. ‘In some small way, I feel like my byline is part of Wall Street history’

Claim: "The weight of the evidence (on global warming) is that most of it, maybe all of it, is because of natural causes ... its fair to say the science is in dispute."
Evidence Summary: For the last six years, the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology was led by Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican with no scientific background. Under him, the committee investigated the debunked idea that global warming had “paused,” subpoenaed organizations whose research affirmed the reality of climate change. At times, committee members showed a basic lack of scientific knowledge: During a hearing in 2014, Steve Stockman, another Texas Republican, said it was nonsensical to think melting glaciers and ice sheets would increase sea levels.

Claim: "The federal government is making the decision, whether we like it or not, to send 425 refugees to our state from Syria."
Evidence Summary: "The local authorities in northern Syria should not be left to deal with this international issue on their own," Sykes said. NBC reported Monday that according to statistics from the U.S. Department of Customs and Border Protection only six immigrants on a terror watchlist have been detained in six months at the Mexican border. The president has misrepresented the people seeking admission to our country as part of his strategy of creating demons, which he says only he can protect the country against. The numbers of people from around the world who have good cause to seek protection here are far beyond what the country can absorb.

Claim: "On new dollar coins, In God We Trust is gone!"
Evidence Summary: Indiana bill calls for the national motto to be posted in public schools. It also calls for high schools to add a biblical studies component to world religion classes. The bill would also allow public schools to teach creationism and offer a survey course on world religions. "I think it’s good to remind people of our national motto and that God is who we really place our trust in," Sen. Dennis Kruse said. "This is how we came about as a country." "In God We Trust," seen on a U.S. dollar bill, became the national slogan in 1956.

Claim: [T]he Georgia Dome has returned $10 billion in economic impact to the state of Georgia.
Evidence Summary: The state raised $700 million in the short term, then it leased the buildings back. A decade later, the state is borrowing money to buy the capitol back. The parade of buses ended at Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where the Super Bowl will be played next month. Authorities say big events like that can cause a spike in sex trafficking.. "By Super Bowl Sunday, Feb. 3, all buyers and traffickers will know that Georgia does not tolerate those who seek to exploit our state's children," Georgia's attorney general says.

Claim: "The Northwest Corridor highway project in Cobb and Cherokee counties is expected to create over 9,700 jobs statewide."
Evidence Summary: ADP reports a solid 37,000 increase in construction jobs. The services sector was particularly strong with gains of 66,000 in the professional and business sector. Economists forecast that the Labor Department will report Friday that employers added 180,000 jobs, with the unemployment rate holding at a five-decade low of 3.7 percent. A coalition of community groups, residents, business leaders and construction organizations, meanwhile, announced their support for Lincoln Yards. The coalition estimated Lincoln Yards will create 10,000 construction jobs and more than 24,000 permanent jobs, creating annual economic output of $4.5 billion.

Claim: "Because of the new health care law, 17 million kids can no longer be denied for a pre-existing condition."
Evidence Summary: A U.S. District Court Judge in Texas ruled the Affordable Care Act, also called Obamacare, was unconstitutional. “Nearly everyone would be affected in some way if the Texas judge’s ruling that the entire ACA is unconstitutional is upheld,” says Larry Levitt, senior vice president of the Kaiser Family Foundation. Levitt: “Research shows uninsured individuals are more apt to skip cancer screenings, delay getting necessary care and ultimately are more likely to have their cancer diagnosed at a later stage.”

Claim: Says Rick Scott thinks employers should be able to deny women coverage for birth control.
Evidence Summary: Judge Blocks Trump Birth Control Policy In 13 States And D.C. California and the other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. The rules would change an ObamaCare mandate by allowing more employers, including publicly traded companies, to opt out of providing no-cost contraceptive coverage to women by claiming religious objections. The Affordable Care Act requires most companies to offer employees health insurance that covers FDA-approved birth control at no cost."Birth control IS health care," Planned Parenthood Action Fund says.

Claim: "A lot of people who go into prison straight, and when they come out theyre gay."
Evidence Summary: Anthony Gay was released from prison in August after 22 years in solitary confinement. A federal judge ordered the Illinois Department of Corrections in October to improve its mental health services. Gay's lawyers believe he could be a pivotal voice in the growing prison reform movement. “I’m more focused on loving the guys that’s still left behind,” Gay told the Tribune, “and throwing a rope to pull them out of the ditch.��“It made me feel alive.”

Claim: "SaysGOP U.S. Senate candidate Darryl Glenn wants to eliminate the Department of Education and jeopardize college fundingfor 320,000 Coloradans."
Evidence Summary: Public education is central to the county’s continued prosperity. “If we lose the school, we’d lose the town,” says Roberts County, Texas, resident. Education secretary Betsy DeVos is a billionaire Republican donor and ardent supporter of charter schooling. "We should not be siphoning off taxpayer dollars, which are in demand, to pay for vouchers," said Rep. DeLauro, the Connecticut Democrat on the appropriations committee. "I’m just conservative in my values and views and a lot of the things Mr Trump believes, I agree with”

Claim: "Says that in 2007, Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data."
Evidence Summary: Clark County, Oregon, has one of the worst vaccinations rates in the state. Of those diagnosed, 19 people were not vaccinated, officials said. In Johnson County, a parents’ group has traced at least 58 childhood cancer cases since 2008. At 21.7 cases of pediatric cancer per 100,000 children, Johnson County’s rate puts it in the 80th percentile among counties nationwide, according to data for 2011-2015 from the National Cancer Institute. So far, there have been no confirmed measles cases in Oregon in the current outbreak.

Claim: "Says that, as a Supreme Court justice, Greg Abbott found that a company whose vacuum cleaners were sold door to door had no responsibility in the hiring of a salesman who raped a customer."
Evidence Summary: In October, Justice Neil Gorsuch suggested that Ross was merely trying to cut through “red tape,” an astoundingly naive view of his machinations. This rebuke to Gorsuch lays out the stakes of the case: Will the courts defer to Ross and accept his screaming falsehoods? Or will they apply independent judgment and see the plain truth—that the Commerce Department violated the law? In that sense, this case is a test of the Supreme Court’s consistency. Even if the court decides that additional evidence was gathered improperly, the bulk of the ruling will stand.

Claim: "The original compromise for the Confederate battle flag in South Carolina was to put it on the back side of the statehouse, out of public view so it would not have any appearance of sovereignty."
Evidence Summary: State Rep. Eric Johnson tweeted a photo of the blank wall where the plaque was once displayed. Johnson, a Dallas Democrat, has long pushed the state to remove the plaque. The plaque was made by the Children of the Confederacy and was first hung in the Capitol in 1959. “Any Confederate museum that wants this thing can have it,” Mr. Woodfin said in an interview at City Hall. ‘I’ll give it to them right now. Hell, I’m even willing to give them whatever they need,’ he said.

Claim: George Bush sent people to war without body armor.
Evidence Summary: The politics of fear has long been the default mode of the insecure statesman. Wars abroad have reflected some neo‑imperial hegemonic urge, similar to that which used to grip Britain. The effect has been to turn the US from policeman to random vigilante. Its endless aggrandisement boosts military spending and upholds the cause of an American presence across the globe.. American aid to Nato has long underpinned Europe’s security, but that does not undermine Donald Trump's challenge, that the rest of the world should start solving its own problems.

Claim: "Says Jeff Brandes voted to allow state-run Citizens Property Insurance to dump policies onto out-of-state, unregulated private companies."
Evidence Summary: The bill, which as previously drafted would affect six townships in Lake County, is also once again being sponsored in the Illinois House by state Rep. David McSweeney, R-Barrington Hills. “I’ve been here for a while, and this discussion has not come up,” said District 17 board member Deborah Allan, who has health and dental insurance through the county. ‘I have given you my word and promise to find this,’ Human Services Committee Chairman Cliff Surges told Iqbal. � “This may take a few months. This is going to take some research.”

Claim: "From 1947 to 1979, family incomes for rich, middle-income and poor Americans grew about the same rate. But since 1979, incomes for rich families have grown much faster."
Evidence Summary: The opportunity to get ahead has been transformed from a shared reality to a perquisite of already being ahead. Most things in American life are cheaper than they were 50 years ago, except for the things that middle-class families need most. These are all much more expensive: Health care, daycare, college tuition, housing in places with good public schools. Buying these things now requires two incomes, rather than one. That puts a strain on families in which both parents work. It absolutely crushes single-parent households.

Claim: "Page 92 of the House health care bill ""says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain."""
Evidence Summary: Pallone: "The focus really has to be on trying to prevent the sabotage and making sure the ACA is strengthened" Pallone: Trump's decision to stop reimbursing insurance companies for discounts they're required by law to give to their lowest-income clients is "sabotage" California Gov. Newsom announced he would sign an executive order dramatically expanding the state's Department of Health Care Services authority to negotiate drug prices. Medi-Cal will let illegal immigrants remain on the rolls until they are 26, according to Newsom's new agenda.

Claim: "Since President Obama took full control of Washington every single day, more than 1,500 of our jobs have been lost."
Evidence Summary: 15 federal workers meet with members of Congress to talk about their plight. "We elected Donald Trump to lead and manage this government, not to turn the lights out and shut it down," says Sen. Dick Durbin. "The government really needs to get together and work this out," says Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-Ill. "There is no morale. There is no good morale," says TSA agent who has been working without pay for three weeks. "It's like we're in a war," says a TSA agent whose job is to protect the nation's airspace.

Claim: "Says Nancy Pelosi said, Waiting long hours in the emergency room will allow you to make new friends!"
Evidence Summary: Nancy Pelosi is expected to become the next speaker of the House of Representatives. She made her first speech as speaker on Thursday, calling for respect among colleagues and the truth. Pelosi also foreshadowed a Democratic proposal to reopen the government, which has been partially shutdown for 13 days. She and other congressional leaders are expected to meet with the president Wednesday to discuss border security, as the partial federal government shutdown drags into its 12th day. “No one ever won betting against Nancy Pelosi. She’s persevered,” her daughter said.

Claim: "The DREAM Act was written by members of both parties. When it came up for a vote a year and a half ago, Republicans in Congress blocked it. The bill hadnt changed. ... The only thing that had changed was politics."
Evidence Summary: Nancy Pelosi: The American dream "has long belonged to people on the right" She said it is time for those on the political left to reclaim its original meaning. Pelosi: "If we ever close the door to new Americans, our leadership role in the world will soon be lost" She urged lawmakers to read Ronald Reagan's "beautiful speech" before quoting it. "Our common cause is to find and forge a way forward for our country," she said. "It took us almost a decade to get the Dream Act, and it’s going to take another five, 10, 20 years to undo the damage that Washington is causing our families," said Assemblywoman Catalina Cruz.

Claim: "70,000 three-year-olds and four-year-olds across America will lose access to the preschool Head Start program. ... 2,000 in the state of Florida alone."
Evidence Summary: Many federal offices across the Navajo Nation are closed because of the shutdown. The federal money Head Start relies on to run the program has been slow to arrive. The proposed rule would displace more than 55,000 children who are U.S. citizens or legal residents. “This is common sense: You take care of your own first,” Rep. Gilland said. "I have 12 now. We're supposed to have 15. We can't seem to get enough children"

Claim: "Muslims attempted to establish the first Islamic Sharia court inside the United States in the town of Irving, Texas."
Evidence Summary: In 2005, Hamid Hayat was convicted in one of the first big terrorism trials of the post-9/11 era. The Hayat case pioneered a controversial strategy of “anticipatory prosecution” that has become a hallmark of terrorism cases. The toxic stew of circumstances that led to Hayat’s conviction still afflicts Muslim Americans in terrorism cases today. "It is beyond tragic that our nation continues to fester with Islamophobia, hate and religious intolerance," Muslims of America said.

Claim: "Since January 2008 the private sector has lost nearly 8 million jobs while local, state and federal governments added 590,000."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. private sector added 271,000 jobs in December, according to a report released Thursday. The increase was driven by hirings at medium-size businesses and in the service sector. The labor market gains have been widespread, with unemployment rates for black, Hispanic, and female jobseekers reaching record lows. There are now 6.9 million unfilled jobs in the country, surpassing the number of people unemployed last year for the first time in history. The monthly jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce.

Claim: "Of the 10,000 Rhode Island children in charter school lotteries for the fall, more than 70 percent are poor .... In addition, a majority of them are students of color."
Evidence Summary: The district's $1.8 billion in reserves is already spoken for, Beutner said. The California Charter Schools Association said in a statement that charter enrollment in the district is 88 percent Latino and African-American. The charter sector would like to admit more students in Massachusetts, but the state has a cap preventing more students from enrolling. The students who won the lottery and attended a charter outperformed the lottery losers in every way, the study found. The gains were equally large or larger for low-income students, students who entered school with low test scores.

Claim: "Yes, this would be the same congressman (Rep. Pete Hoekstra) who last year Tweeted the whereabouts of a top-secret mission to Iraq."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Ted Cruz defended President Donald Trump Sunday amid reports that are raising new questions about the president's relationship with Russia. "When you get outside the Beltway, I don't see anyone concerned about this at all," Cruz said. Rep. Jim Clyburn defended Democrats' response to the Buzzfeed report, saying they qualified their statement by saying, 'If this is true' "It's one of the reasons why people are so frustrated with many in the national media," Vice President Mike Pence said.

Claim: "Says the federal government could save $175,587 by eliminating a study of the connection between cocaine and risky sex habits of the Japanese quail."
Evidence Summary: The science on needle exchanges is resoundingly clear, says CNN's John Sutter. Sutter: Drug prohibition has worked out as badly as alcohol prohibition did nearly 100 years ago. Those who resist instituting these methods of harm reduction argue that these strategies jeopardize public safety and enable more drug use, he says. “We have decades of solutions showing that those deaths can be prevented,” Sutter says of the U.S.'s drug problem. "There’s always going to be a demand for illegal and illicit drugs," says a drug control official.

Claim: "Once people become citizens under the DREAM Act and turn 21, they can sponsor their illegal immigrant parents for legalization."
Evidence Summary: John Avlon: President Trump's offer to end the government shutdown is not good enough. Avlon says the 'dreamers' need a path to citizenship, not merely a three-year reprieve. He says the proposal resurrects an earlier bipartisan legislation known as the BRIDGE Act, which didn't go anywhere.Avlon: The bill would allow an estimated 700,000 of the so-called DREAMers to remain in the country legally. The bill is not likely to become law.

Claim: "When it comes to protesters in Madison, almost all are now from outside of Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: Rallies were also held in almost a dozen foreign cities, including Berlin, Rome and Kabul. The movement that galvanized the nation's capital with pink protest hats has morphed from a show of force on the streets to a mobilizing force at the polls. Without the motivation of Trump’s election or the midterms, the marches this year face such obstacles as travel inconveniences from the federal shutdown as well as harsh weather Saturday from the Midwest to New England. "Though we are heartened by this decision we will continue to fight any further efforts designed to undermine democracy in Wisconsin or any other part of our nation," Holder said.

Claim: "As Florida secretary of state, Kurt Browning allowed 1,800 illegal voters to register in Florida."
Evidence Summary: Elections supervisors across the state posted notices at their offices and websites saying they would accept the registration forms starting Tuesday. Civil rights groups have maintained the measure is self-executing, but just to be sure, they warned that they are ready to go to court if there are any delays. In December, DeSantis said it would be months before Florida’s Republican-dominated legislature would approve “implementing language” to allow the measure to be passed into law.

Claim: "Based on the August 2012 national jobs numbers, for every person who got a job, nearly four people stopped looking for a job."
Evidence Summary: “2018 was a banner year for the labor market,” said Julia Pollak, a labor economist at the online employment market site ZipRecruiter. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains, and African-Americans, whose jobless rate has reached record lows.

Claim: On repealing the 17th Amendment
Evidence Summary: Missouri voters gave much of the power to draw state House and Senate districts to a demographer. The criteria in the amendment are aimed at giving political parties a better chance at winning in places where they usually get swamped. But fans of the measure barely had a chance to exhale before the GOP majority began to talk about repealing it. That’s not the fault of the Second Amendment, or those who believe in it. We need to more strictly enforce the laws that exist.

Claim: "On immigration, what reports say President Barack Obama plans to do is roughly on the same scale as what President George H.W. Bush did."
Evidence Summary: President Trump has frequently called the situation at the southern border with Mexico a crisis. He insists that building his long-promised border wall will fix it. Here are some of Mr. Trump’s most common assertions of a crisis, and the reality of what we know about immigrants and the border. Illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades. In 2017, border-crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971. Back in 2014, Obama used his bully pulpit to urge a divided Congress to advance an immigration overhaul bill.

Claim: "Were $15 trillion now in debt, with a president thats racked up as much debt as almost all of the other presidents combined."
Evidence Summary: David Frum: U.S. faces $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. He says the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. New Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt, he says.Frum: Politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters, especially on health care and education, to win the anxious middle-class vote.

Claim: "In the New York 9th District, there is a large number of people who went to the polls tonight who didnt support the president to begin with and dont support Democrats -- and its nothing more than that."
Evidence Summary: “You don’t want to have a situation where you tear this country apart and for the next 30 years half the country’s saying, ‘We won the election, you stole it,’” Nadler said last year. “Our two party system created a voting process which is an illusion, and a government that fluctuates between two extremes – each extreme annulling any progress made by the opposition in the prior administration,” he said.

Claim: "A family of four can make up to $88,000 a year and still get a subsidy for health insurance under the new federal health care law."
Evidence Summary: Under the Affordable Care Act, tax credits are available to people whose incomes are up to four times the poverty line. People with higher incomes can find coverage difficult, if not impossible, to afford. Newsom wants to reinstate the financial penalty for people who do not have insurance. This would make California the fourth state to adopt an individual mandate with a penalty; Massachusetts, New Jersey and Vermont already have such a policy in law. About 7 million fewer Americans had health insurance at the end of last year compared with two years prior.

Claim: "Last year it was discovered that Rhode Islands public employees ranked 4th in average pay, while the private sector ranked 23rd."
Evidence Summary: Supreme Court decision in June effectively made the entire public sector right-to-work. Public-sector unions have helped prop up organized labor as a whole in recent years. Government work has been particularly important for workers with less education or lower skills. Even today, black and Latino workers are better-represented in public-sector jobs than in the broader U.S. workforce. The lowest-paid postal employee in Des Moines, Iowa, earns $15 per hour -- more than twice the minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.

Claim: Says Will Hurd said a border-long U.S.-Mexico wall absolutely makes sense.
Evidence Summary: Texas Rep. Will Hurd, a Republican, is familiar with the country’s southern border; his district spans more than 800 miles of it. He was one of only a handful of Republicans who joined his colleagues across the aisle in voting for a plan to reopen the government without border wall funding. “A wall from sea to shining sea is the most expensive and least effective way to do border security,” he previously told The New York Times. Trump has demanded more than $5 billion for the oft-repeated campaign promise.

Claim: "When I was in college, we used to take a popcorn popper . . . and we would fry squirrel."
Evidence Summary: The squirrel hid the Styrofoam container with his pork fried rice on the other side of the tree so he wouldn’t get a sanitation ticket or scolded by a progressive mayor. “It was like somebody slipped a Xanax into his McFlurry this afternoon,” the squirrel said. He placed himself on the “hot seat,’ allowing students to ask him anything about himself, before encouraging others to volunteer for the spot. "When I was in middle school, I was a D student," he said.

Claim: "Ronald Reagan raised taxes in 1982, 1984, 1985, 1986 and 1987."
Evidence Summary: Under Reagan, America drastically ramped up defense spending in a successful bid to bring down the Soviet Union. Wall Street suffered its worst day ever under Reagan. The Dow plunged an astonishing 22.6% on Black Monday. Nonetheless, the S&P 500 posted five separate years of double-digit growth on the Gipper’s watch, including a 26% spike in 1985. In 1980, a fifth-grader whose allowance was less than $44 a week would have owed no tax at all on the 10-spot grammy paid for doing chores. And he or she would have had to have a weekly stipend of more than $2,000 a week before the 70 percent rate kicked in.

Claim: "Says Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., has stated that supporting the right to health care ... means you believe in slavery."
Evidence Summary: “Never in the history of this country has it been legal to make people work for free,” Welch wrote. Paul has called universal health care “slavery” because it would “conscript” doctors and their staff members to provide care. In Canada, medical care is publicly funded and universally provided through the country's Provincial Ministry of Health, and everyone receives the same level of care. A new survey found broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care, including letting people buy into Medicare or Medicaid.

Claim: "Says Bernie Sanders health care plan would empower Republicangovernors to take away Medicaid,to take away health insurance for low-income and middle-income working Americans."
Evidence Summary: Democrats are bullish on health care as an electoral issue after focusing on President Donald Trump’s agenda last year. The boldest, most sweeping idea Democrats have is the one that Bernie Sanders, the independent senator from Vermont, made famous in his 2016 bid for the Democratic presidential nomination. The legislation that Sanders has written, and that many of his colleagues and potential Democratic primary opponents endorsed, would expressly ban private insurance plans that compete with the government. Republicans have a different choice to make. They can use the results of the election as an opportunity to officially cede the ground they have already really lost.

Claim: "In 2006, Planned Parenthood performed more prevention services and cancer screenings than abortions, but in 2013, there were more abortions."
Evidence Summary: The series of new Planned Parenthood billboards features the faces of three women who say they've had an abortion. One of the things that abortion opponents say is that obviously this means that less people are having abortions. If there were just simply less people having abortions, we would see a huge uptick in the birth rate, and we’re not seeing that at all. With both sides of the debate energized by the reshuffled political landscape, 2019 is poised to be a landmark year for abortion-related legislation.

Claim: "If youre earning under $100,000 a year and you commute to New York every day you pay more to the Port Authority in tolls than you pay to the state of New Jersey in income tax."
Evidence Summary: Walker failed on both counts when he tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize the congresswoman’s proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Walker tweeted.

Claim: "There are 850,000 Ohio jobs tied to the auto industry."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. But as much of the global auto industry descends on Detroit this week for its annual auto show, the good news in the U.S. is being tempered with flashing yellow lights overseas. "You spend more time with those people than you do your own family," Donnie Minor said.

Claim: Says House Republicans rejected a straightforward measure that would prevent members of Congress and the president from being paid during a government shutdown.
Evidence Summary: The House on Friday passed a bill to grant backpay to federal workers who have been furloughed or required to work without pay during the partial government shutdown. The bill still requires a signature from President Donald Trump, but Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell indicated Thursday that the president told him he would sign it if it reached his desk. Several members of the U.S. House and Senate have said they’ll forgo their own paychecks during the shutdown to show solidarity with federal workers. Polling indicates that Americans are more likely to blame Trump for the shutdown than congressional Democrats.

Claim: "Governor Christie also remains the only Governor since World War II, among both Democrats and Republicans, who failed to have his party win control of at least one legislative body over the course of his term."
Evidence Summary: Chris Christie: Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner is a politically clueless ideologue. He says Rauners' refusal to negotiate a state budget was a hostage-taking move. Christie: The GOP will still have a majority of the nation’s governorships. But 27 states have Republicans leading them, compared to 23 states led by Democrats, he says. The change will be the first time since 1887 that California has had consecutive Democratic governors, Christie says. But California isn't getting a carbon copy in substance or style, he adds.

Claim: "Over 73% of all donations raised (from the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge) are going to fundraising, overhead, executive salaries, and external donations."
Evidence Summary: ALS, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is a progressive neurological disease. About 5,000 people in the U.S. are diagnosed each year; the ALS Association estimates about 20,000 Americans have the disease. In 2014, the viral Ice Bucket Challenge raised more than $100 million and tripled the association’s research budget. A poll found that more than 60 percent of Americans knew little about ALS; 85 percent didn’t know the average lifespan was less than five years.

Claim: "If you go strictly by the numbers, crime is down across the board. Last year we had a 10 percent decrease in the most serious crimes."
Evidence Summary: The data on crime, and what it says about reforms, has been contested. Small upticks in some types of crime in some areas has muddied the picture. For instance, violent crime rose in California in 2012 and between 2015 and 2017. Activists see parallels in the strategies of opponents of more lenient sentencing laws in California and the rhetoric on crime at the national level. "Police and prosecutors have been getting increasingly savvy and creative and aggressive about going after older sex crimes and cover-ups than ever before"

Claim: "Says the 2010-11 New Hampshire budget ended with an $18 million surplus, while the Republican-led 2012-13 budget has a $40 million deficit."
Evidence Summary: Newsom’s predecessor, Jerry Brown, was able to move California back towards fiscal stability following a $27 billion deficit. But it came with major cuts to education and healthcare – something Newsom is looking to replenish again. Newsom will release his own revenue estimates along with his budget, which could include an even larger surplus if his economic forecasts are rosier. He promised in his inaugural address Monday that his budget would be bold. “We will aim high and we will work like hell to get there,” he said.

Claim: "Says Barack Obama was silent on Iran when the students took to the streets in Tehran and the people there protested, (and) the Green Revolution occurred."
Evidence Summary: President Obama did not use the words “terrorism” or “terrorist,” opting for “violent extremists” to describe radical militant groups. Jimmy Carter was more concerned with the Islamic revolutionaries’ sensibilities than Jimmy Carter. President George W. Bush’s inclusion of Iran in his “axis of evil” speech alarmed Iranian leaders. It was time for the clerical state to buy time and wait for the storm to pass. The latter campaign shocked an Iranian political establishment that had been confidently told by its military leaders that America could not discharge that task with such ease.

Claim: "No candidate has run more negative ads in American history than Barack Obama did in 2008, especially in the general."
Evidence Summary: Obama actively campaigned for Democrats in last year’s midterms, endorsing more than 300 candidates. While the party he once presided over is divided on most everything, they are united in their reverence to Obama. Should he throw his support behind a candidate down the road, he could be the only prayer the party has of a semblance of unity. Another lesser-known declared presidential candidate, businessman and former Maryland Rep. John Delaney, has largely escaped the harshest criticism from both parties.

Claim: "A Texas police department bought an ad telling drug dealers, We can take your competition off the streets for FREE."
Evidence Summary: 12 unmarked DEA cars were stationed along a 70-mile stretch of Interstate 94 near Kalamazoo, Michigan. In Iowa, police arrested a man who had more than $10,000 and a large quantity of of cocaine and meth in his hotel room. In Florida, police who stopped a driver for speeding found 36 grams of cocaine, and roughly 22 grams of meth. These incidents, which happened across the last four weeks, show a relatively new trend in the rise and availability of meth and cocaine across the U.S.

Claim: "Our unemployment rate has been higher than 8 percent for more than two-and-a-half years, far above what the Obama Administration promised with the stimulus."
Evidence Summary: U.S. employers stepped up their hiring in December, adding 312,000 jobs in an encouraging display of strength for an economy in the midst of a trade war. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The strong job gains suggest that the tumbling stock market has yet to depress expectations that the economy will expand for a 10th straight year.

Claim: "Thanks in part to our all-of-the-above strategy for American energy, the United States generates more natural gas than anybody."
Evidence Summary: America's abundant natural gas and oil are creating jobs, supporting communities and the economy. New technologies such as fracking and horizontal drilling have enabled developers to tap huge underground energy reserves. With smart trade, infrastructure and regulatory policies, Generation Energy is poised to accelerate U.S. energy leadership. See how we’re doing it and join us at PowerPastImpossible.org. Follow us on Twitter Anna Palmer @apalmerdc and Jake Sherman @JakeSherman.Daniel Lippman @dlippman.

Claim: "State law says that once the state appraises a piece of property, they can only pay it a certain amount above appraisal."
Evidence Summary: In November, the airport authority sent a $900,000 appraisal to Industrial Highway Corp. as part of a sale negotiation. The lawsuit maintained the airport and city’s alleged interference violated the company's constitutional rights. In Cook County, the majority of property taxes go to fund school districts and other services such as parks, libraries, emergency protection and county and municipal services. To help residents better understand the process, the Tax Services Department has a “Property Tax 101’ slideshow on its website.

Claim: "Thanks to our reforms, the average family will have an extra $322 to spend."
Evidence Summary: Economic uncertainty and student loan debt are two factors that impact women's decisions about when to start families, according to Dr. Karen Guzzo, the associate director of the Center for Family & Demographic Research at Bowling Green State University. Guzzo said demographers expected to see fertility rates bounce back as the country recovered from the 2008 financial crisis, but that hasn't happened. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," said Guzzo.

Claim: "When oil and gas prices sent state revenues up, Palin sent ""a large share of that revenue directly back to the people of Alaska."""
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom takes office amid a soaring state economy that has a projected $16 billion in reserves and an additional $14.8 billion unrestricted surplus. He campaigned heavily on issues relating to housing, health care and education that could raise state spending and, during his speech, Newsom promised fiscal responsibility to “prepare for uncertain times ahead” Kansas Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly set out this week to make good on her promise to undo eight years of Republican leadership by hiring state workers and expanding government services without raising taxes.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clintons top 10 donors are mainly banks, corporations and media, while Bernie Sanders top 10 donors are labor unions."
Evidence Summary: Democratic candidates in the general election collected nearly $296 million in small donations, more than three times the $85 million collected by Republicans. The growth of small donor contributions has lessened the dependence of Democratic candidates on the network of Washington-based PACs and fund-raisers. A potentially larger challenge in any Democratic effort to reduce inequality is that allied interest groups and individual donors — as progressive as they are — focus on issues that are not necessarily about reducing inequality for the poor and working class.

Claim: "If we dont spend money on a pier, then that money does wipe into the general funds of the city or the county, and if you send it to the county, you never see it again."
Evidence Summary: "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck ... agree 100 percent with what I’m doing," Mayor Rahm Emanuel says. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he adds. "Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling." "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes"

Claim: "Republican candidate for governor Allan Fung donated to Democrats like Congressman David Cicilline, disgraced (House) speaker Gordon Fox and even Mr. Obamacare, Harry Reid."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials. A political group in one town spent hundreds of dollars on booze. In another town, a mayor’s campaign fund paid thousands of dollars to a village employee. Fox News has requested comment from more than a dozen Democratic officeholders who donor records indicate have received campaign money from Buck.

Claim: "More than 70,000 job openings are listed on a state jobs website."
Evidence Summary: Payroll processor ADP said Thursday that private businesses added a robust 271,000 jobs in December. The employment site Glassdoor found that job postings have risen 17 percent in the past year to 6.7 million. "We really don't see any slowdown yet," said Andrew Chamberlain, chief economist at Glassdoor. Hiring has been unusually strong as the unemployment rate has fallen to 3.7 percent — a 49-year low — from 4.1 percent at the start of 2018.

Claim: "When the United States invaded Iraq, Saddam Hussein wanted to acquire weapons of mass destruction, and ""he said so himself after his capture."""
Evidence Summary: U.S. National Security Adviser John Bolton reportedly cautioned the Syrian government not to see the drawdown as an opening to use chemical weapons. “So the regime, the Assad regime, should be under no illusions on that question,” said Bolton, who is on a four-day trip to Israel and Turkey. Bolton was on his way to Israel when he said there was “absolutely no change” in the U.S’s stance on the matter of chemical weapons, according to The Wall Street Journal. More than half a million people have died during the Syrian war.

Claim: "When asked about bills in Congress important to the North Country, Derrick responded I just dont know enough about it."
Evidence Summary: Born and raised in New Jersey, he describes himself as ‘a blue-collar kid’ He went on to found two financial companies, becoming the youngest chief executive on the New York stock exchange. In 2012 he ‘rolled up his sleeves and went into the Congress’, showing willingness to work across the aisle. “I’ve had the experiences you need,” he says. ‘I think I have the perfect background,’ he insists, while admitting he is hardly objective.

Claim: "Except for Virginia, the other 49 states keep raising their gas tax."
Evidence Summary: Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has proposed an increase of 30 cents per gallon to one of the nation’s highest gas taxes. State Reps. Allen Skillicorn, R-East Dundee, and Jeanne Ives,. R-Wheaton, hosted a rally Jan. 7 to oppose increasing the state motor fuel tax. “The worst-kept secret in Springfield is a rumored massive gasoline and diesel tax hike. Just when gas prices are finally falling, and little more than a year after income taxes were hiked 32 percent, greedy politicians seem all too willing to take more of our hard-earned money,” Skillicorns said.

Claim: "Says 70,000 children have lost their Head Start slots because of the sequester."
Evidence Summary: Many federal offices across the Navajo Nation are closed because of the shutdown. The federal money Head Start relies on to run the program has been slow to arrive. The government shutdown that began Dec. 22 has left 380,000 federal workers furloughed and another 420,000 working without pay. The vast majority of the federal government’s public health efforts have already been funded by Congress and are not affected by the impasse.“Do you know how embarrassing it is to go to your kid and say, ‘Hey, I have to borrow the house payment?’”

Claim: "Sarah Palin ""has more experience than Barack Obama."""
Evidence Summary: Biden or another of Obama’s acolytes may find success running as James Polk did in 1844, which was to seal and complete the vision of a past hero of the party. We don’t know what an “Obama Democrat” really is since his rise was a singular phenomenon rather than a movement. It may be only now, without the presence of his longtime rival, Hillary Clinton, that the Democrats get down to defining what that means. Biden made no specific reference to 2020, although he has hinted he'll be a candidate in the coming months.

Claim: "If you rent a U-Haul to move your company, it costs twice as much to go from San Francisco to Austin than the other way around, because you cant find enough trucks to flee the Golden State."
Evidence Summary: Trucking companies face an uphill climb in 2019 as a freight boom that delivered record profit for carriers over the past year begins to soften. Full-size pickups like Ford’s F-150 and GM’S Chevrolet Silverado contribute the lion’�s share of profits for both companies. “Selling Ford trucks in Texas is a great place to be,” said one Texas auto dealer. ‘We’re not going to stop and just say, ‘Oh this is a cost of doing business’’

Claim: "Oregons three largest employers, and 13 of the top 25, are health care providers."
Evidence Summary: Researchers sketched a vivid line Friday linking the dollars spent by drugmakers to woo doctors around the country to a vast opioid epidemic. The study, published in JAMA Network Open, looked at county-specific federal data. For each three additional payments made to physicians per 100,000 people in a county, opioid overdose deaths were up 18 percent, according to the study.Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person.

Claim: We get 30 percent of our oil from the Gulf (of Mexico).
Evidence Summary: U.S. crude oil production stood at a record 11.7 million barrels per day in late 2018. That makes the United States the world’s biggest oil producer ahead of Russia and Saudi Arabia. Record output is also swelling U.s. fuel stockpiles. President Donald Trump said U.S pressure had kept production high among allies in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) In Mexico City, lines of drivers snaked from gas stations making panic purchases out of fear supplies would run low.

Claim: Says the U.S. Constitution provides for just compensation when land is taken under eminent domain.
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump recently said that he will “almost... definitely” resort to emergency powers to build a wall on the Mexican border if Congress does not give in to his demands. In order to build it, he would need not only funds, but also the power to seize property from unwilling owners through the use of eminent domain. The vast majority of the property in Texas on which he wants to build is private, according to Rep. Will Hurd, R-Texas, whose district contains a longer stretch of the border than anyone else's.

Claim: "As we near the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, we should not forget that some of the hijackers used New Jersey drivers licenses to board those aircraft."
Evidence Summary: "When will we come to grips with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets?" he asks. "We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control" "This should happen not because states are weak, but because they are confident the strength of their values will ultimately prevail," he adds. "And always, always, keep our nation safe from threats old and new, from terrorism and cyber warfare overseas and here at home to protect and defend" "We cannot speak to dead terrorists. We can speak for dead victims.

Claim: "For every $10,000 invested in business incubators, up to nearly 70 local jobs are generated."
Evidence Summary: The BIG Incubator Program runs for 30 weeks for up to 20 startups led by black and Latinx women. "I am trying to put them in an Iron Man suit and let them fly," Hamilton says. "Many growing businesses like ours are continuing to invest in the future regardless," Finney says. Despite all the turmoil in this world, Illinoisans continue to build, innovate, create and dream.. One out of 10 computer science degrees in the nation comes from Illinois colleges and universities.

Claim: "Although the governor doubled the beach fees . . . all the money, as we found out, is all going to an out-of-state company. The state isnt even getting the money for that."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom’s new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. The governor laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation. At one point, apparently speaking extemporaneously as he walked across a stage, Mr Newsom offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. The IRS was still figuring that out even with the full funding, he said.

Claim: "Three presidents in the last century Harding, Kennedy and Reagan all cut taxes during recessions and produced ""rapid and dramatic economic recoveries,"" while two, Herbert Hoover and Barack Obama, did ""the opposite."""
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. It was silly to blame Obama for the vicious downturn he inherited in 2009, he could plausibly argue that his economic stimulus and other policies helped drive the recovery over the rest of his term. But Trump also owns the red ink created by those tax cuts. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion.

Claim: "The Congressional Budget Office analysis of the health insurance reform legislation says the bill ""cuts the deficit by $1.2 trillion in the second 10 years."""
Evidence Summary: As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. Total federal revenues in 2018 came in roughly where the Tax Foundation, a Washington think tank that typically projects large growth boosts from tax cuts, had forecast — which is to say, well below the budget office’s baseline. Just because the new law helped to increase economic growth, “it doesn’t mean that it is going to pay for itself,” an economist said.

Claim: "The income of the top 1 percent nearly quadrupled from 1979 to 2007, but the typical familys incomes barely budged."
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households has declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. For the highest 0.1 percent of earners, incomes have grown more than 300 percent; for the top 0.01 percent, income has grown by as much as 450 percent. Only 140,000 tax filers make this much money, compared with nearly 70 million who make up the bottom 50 percent of income earners. The top tax rate stood above 90 percent throughout the 1950s, but through deductions and tax avoidance, "taxes on the rich were not that much higher"

Claim: "On (Rob Portmans) watch as Bushs trade czar, our deficit with China exploded and as Bushs budget chief, Portman oversaw a spending spree that doubled the deficit."
Evidence Summary: Blinken: Trump was right to confront unfair trade practices. But he was "profoundly wrong" in the way he has gone about changing Chinese behavior, she said. China exported $324bn more in goods and services to the US than it imported last year. The more the US president fulminates about China selling the US far more than it buys, the more it seems to go against him. It's stupid to worry about the trade deficit if you're a politician or a pundit, say the geniuses in the establishment.

Claim: "In just six years, Georgia has dropped from first in the nation from a business-friendly legal climate to 24th."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. unemployment rate is at its lowest level since 1969. The Supreme Court struck down laws that allowed in-state wineries to ship wine directly to consumers out-of-state. Ford and Volkswagon team up to develop autonomous and electric vehicles. Use the weekly Newsquiz to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN iReport. Back to the page you came from."I hope they budgeted," says the owner of a bar in Jesup, Georgia, about the shutdown.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton is ""willing to have workers' wages garnisheed if they refuse to buy health insurance."""
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., has been fined by the state for not providing workers’ compensation coverage for a month last year. Republicans jumped on the revelations, telling the newspaper that the episode reveals “hypocrisy at its finest” The Democrat said she was working as a waitress and bartender when she decided to run for Congress. “When you can’t have health care, that is not dignified,” she said.

Claim: "Says, In the last four years weve cut $36 million in ongoing revenue."
Evidence Summary: Revenue for the past quarter climbed 27 percent from the previous year to $4.2 billion, in line with analysts' estimates. "It's not difficult to cut costs in a business," he said, but it is hard to do it without shrinking sales. "We need these numbers to be regulated and to be audited," says Mr Hyman. The service business confusion didn’t help, said Daniel Ives, managing director at Wedbush Securities. “When transparency is reduced, the multiple gets reduced,” he said.

Claim: "Financial conflict-of-interest laws dont apply to the president, right? So, the president doesnt have to have a blind trust."
Evidence Summary: President Trump’s response to his critics is telling. He says “the president can’t have a conflict of interest,” an attitude more fit for a king than a president. But the United States is not a monarchy, and nothing in our Constitution or laws would support such a characterization of presidential immunity. Congress should act quickly and decisively to include all government officials, including the most powerful, in the definition of a federal “employee” covered by conflict-of-interest laws.

Claim: "The House health care bill pays for ""about six years of program with a decade of revenue, with the heaviest costs concentrated in the second five years."""
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. We’re deeply invested in the myth that medicine has drastically increased the human lifespan and will continue to do so. As Lieberman pointed out, the health care industry heavily markets its own importance and pushes treating illness over preventing it with lifestyle modification.

Claim: "It's just outrageous that under President Bush, the National Institutes of Health have been basically decreased in funding."
Evidence Summary: “A lot of this relies on the pharmaceutical companies and others, so it isn’t entirely in the gift of the government. We need the government to start focusing on our education," she says. "There is no one who can deny the effectiveness of that. Let’s just do that and propose that and get some funding for that type of measure," she adds. “So far that work has been progressing very well, I’ve been very pleased with the response of the pharmaceutical industry who obviously take this incredibly seriously”

Claim: We are 49th in the nation for our graduation rate
Evidence Summary: The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960. Many graduates are the first in their families to earn a degree and often remain in Chicago to provide stability in our neighborhoods. The Tribune’s reliance on “graduation rates” as a metric for success conflates ‘graduation rate’ with degree attainment. The editorial perpetuates rhetoric that CSU “fails to educate” students and has an “egregiously low graduation rate.”

Claim: "Welcome to #Houston, the most #diverse city in #America."
Evidence Summary: A big reason Houston and its suburbs have been trending blue is because they're so diverse, a phenomenon across the country. This cycle, Harris County also saw record numbers of Hispanic-American, Asian-American and LGBT candidates. The more such candidates win, the more it encourages younger people of diverse backgrounds to believe they can do the same. "Is this the way we want the rest of the nation and the world to see us?" Covington's mayor asks. "In answer, let me — as Covingon's mayor — be absolutely clear: No."

Claim: "The White House has three staff calligraphers making between $86,000 and $97,000 each, and just one National Security Director. She makes $55,000."
Evidence Summary: The two advertised jobs, based in McAllen and Brownsville, will pay between $53,062 and $138,790. "It looks like Trump has protected his own appointees, and everyone else gets screwed," Rep. Don Beyer, D-Va., said. Vice President Mike Pence's pay was scheduled to rise from $230,700 to $243,500. Cabinet secretaries were entitled to a jump in annual salary from $199,000 to $210,700. Others affected are under secretaries, deputy directors and other top administrators.

Claim: "The radiation coming from the new TSA body scanners is equivalent to about three minutes worth of air travel by anybody, say, at 30,000 feet."
Evidence Summary: 5.5 percent of the TSA workforce called out at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport on Friday. At John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, a TSA employee union official told CNN last week that up to 170 of its workers have called out. "It's profoundly unfair and almost disrespectful to put us in the middle of this debate over border security when we have absolutely nothing to do with it," TSA officer Mike Gayzagian told CBS News. "I talked to a waitress in Bangor this morning whose husband works for TSA," Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, tweeted Tuesday.

Claim: "If Fox News presidential debate rules had been in place during the1992 election,Bill Clinton wouldnt have beenon the stage."
Evidence Summary: Mika Brzezinski, on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Rachel Maddow, on the report that Michael Cohen hired an IT firm to rig online polls in favor of then-candidate Trump. NICOLLE WALLACE, on new details about the Trump administration's IMMIGRATION POLICIES. The Brian Kilmeade Show, 9 a.m. ET: New York Post columnist Michael Goodwin on how Democrats keep proving they're detached from reality. The Todd Starnes Show, Noon ET: Legal scholar Alan Dershowitz explains why the Democrats should not impeach President Trump.

Claim: "Barbara Boxer voted to cut spending on Medicare benefits by $500 billion, cuts so costly to hospitals and nursing homes that they could stop taking Medicare altogether."
Evidence Summary: Some liberals are unhappy with Democratic attempts to dial back Medicare for All. The Pelosi-backed principle, Ocasio-Cortez charged in a Twitter post Wednesday, was a "dark political maneuver designed to hamstring progress on healthcare" and other legislation. Democrats in Iowa are bracing for major reforms ahead of a massive caucus. The Washington Post takes an in-depth look at Kamala Harris’ 2020 policy platform. The AP reports that 2020 hopefuls are unapologetically moving to the left.

Claim: "Says that we brought CHI Manufacturing, that had business in China, back to Texas."
Evidence Summary: The lakefront town of Holland, home to 33,000 people, has long prospered as a center for the production of office furniture and auto parts. In vowing to take a tough line with China, Mr. Trump secured 62 percent of the votes in surrounding Ottawa County. “Even though it’s hurting me, I hope we have the guts to stick it out,” said Tom Sligh, president of Billco Products, which makes cabinets, dressers and other furniture for hotels.

Claim: "This year, the Blackstone Valley Mayoral Academy became the first public school in Rhode Island history to have 100 percent of its elementary-age students proficient in reading on state assessments."
Evidence Summary: More CPS students earned AP Capstone Diplomas this past year than in any other school district in the country. The reflexive practice of giving politicians and other high-ranking public officials a building or a street or a highway interchange as a sendoff strikes a sour note for us. Instead, put the name of an accomplished, inspirational figure on a school and you’re creating a permanent teaching moment by encouraging every child who enters to learn more about this scientist or that suffragette.

Claim: "The fact is that although we have had a president who is opposed to abortion over the last eight years, abortions have not gone down.''	abortion	barack-obama	President	Illinois	democrat	70	71	160	163	9	a TV interview with megachurch pastor Rick Warren in Lake Forest, Calif.
Evidence Summary: The survey also found that if the Supreme Court revisits the landmark Roe v. Wade decision, 49 percent of Americans support upholding abortion restrictions legislated by the states. Just 30 percent of respondents favored a Supreme Court ruling allowing unrestricted abortion. The poll's release coincided with Friday's 46th annual March for Life in Washington. About half of U.S. adults say abortion should be legal, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll last year. About 68 percent of Democrats supporting abortion access compared to about 31 percent of Republicans.

Claim: 2155	2724.json	true	Most of the jobs that we lost were lost before the economic policies we put in place had any effect.	economy,job-accomplishments,jobs,stimulus	barack-obama	President	Illinois	democrat	70	71	160	163	9	an interview on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart"" ""Perry says Paine wrote that the duty of a patriot is to protect his country from his government. """" He offers no proof or citation of where Paine wrote that phrase. Two Paine scholars tell us the quote didnt originate with the founding father and that the saying doesnt appear in any of Paines writings."""
Evidence Summary: In America, a sense of genuine patriotism was lost during Reagan’s term, the me/I/mine-generation replacing the us/we/our way of thinking. It's false patriotism to praise freedom and then hypocritically deprive workers of the wages they need for food, clothing, shelter, health care, transportation to and from work, etc. Only government can protect our climate, renew our infrastructure, assure our national security, preserve the rule of law and strengthen public safety. A government degraded by the incompetent and malicious endangers these imperatives — and every one of us.

Claim: ""
Evidence Summary: "That would not have been possible without the support of the residents of Harris County," he says. "It wasn't a free for all," he adds. "Our troops are coming out." "I wouldn't wish that on nobody," says the mayor. "I just wanted him to see that’s what we're here for." "We're here to help. We're not here to hurt anybody," says his wife. "We just want to help each other out," she says. “I just want him to know that.”

Claim: Says of a failed cloture vote on nominating Chuck Hagel for defense secretary: This is not a filibuster.
Evidence Summary: South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham said he is "hell-bent" on ensuring that the next Supreme Court vacancy is filled by a conservative. Graham emphasized that former Democratic Sen. Majority Leader Harry Reid had eliminated the Senate filibuster for federal appellate judicial nominees in 2013. Republicans later retaliated by eliminating the filibuster for Supreme Court appointments, meaning that a simple majority -- rather than a 60-vote supermajority -- is sufficient to confirm new Supreme Court nominees. The question is whether Senate Republicans are going to do anything more to overcome this deliberate political obstruction.

Claim: "Virginia ranked 35th in job creation in 2009 under Gov. Tim Kaine, and moved up to third for 2010, while McDonnell has been in office."
Evidence Summary: The arrival last year of Mr. Carter and 14 other newly elected Democrats made it possible for Democrats to expand Medicaid. Now the party is aiming to take control of the state legislature this coming November. While Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product, it ranks 26th in income equality, according to the American Community Survey. He has been a vocal opponent of the incentive package, worth more than half a billion dollars, used to lure one of Amazon’s new headquarters to Crystal City.

Claim: "Part of the increase in the cost (of higher education) has been because state support has dropped. We now spend, under Governor Walker, more on corrections than we do on higher education."
Evidence Summary: Gov.-elect J.B. Pritzker inherits a muddle from outgoing governor, editorial says. Many potential customers don’t like what Illinois higher ed is selling, it says. Since 2000, number of Illinois residents enrolled outside the state as freshmen has increased by 73 percent. Top students are leaving for out-of-state schools, the editorial says, and many build their families and careers elsewhere. It asks why Illinois higher education thinks it deserves a 16.6 percent raise.

Claim: "Sotomayor thinks ""that ones sex, race and ethnicity ought to affect the decisions one renders from the bench."""
Evidence Summary: Lady Hale called for a more balanced gender representation on the UK’s highest court. She also described the compulsory retirement age of 70 for judges as a ‘waste of talent’ In the high court, court of appeal and supreme court, a quarter of judges are women. Among district judges, around a third are female. “We are all products of our background and our experiences, so the greater the diversity, the better,” she said. The need to pick up the pace on seating judges is now desperate.

Claim: "While in the Illinois Senate, Barack Obama passed ""tax cuts for hard-working families."""
Evidence Summary: Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy. The less fortunate should be assisted through social service programs until they can get on their own feet and become independent. Without more prudence in handling the huge budget crisis in Illinois, more and more citizens will move to other states where tax rates are more equitable. The future of Illinois depends on the passage of a fair income tax, which will bring us into the 21st century like most of our midwestern neighbors, and like the vast majority of the United States.

Claim: Says U.S. is giving seven Alaskan islands to Russia.
Evidence Summary: Russia and Japan have been in dispute for seven decades over islands. They are known in Russia as the Southern Kuriles and in Japan as the Northern Territories. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is making a push toward a treaty with Russia over the islands. He is due to hold talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin this month, but Moscow has shown no willingness to cede control over the island territories. But in a poll released in November, it showed that 74 percent of Russians are against a transfer of territory even if that does mean a peace treaty.

Claim: "Theres a section in the Constitution called the Emoluments Clause that says no one, nor their spouses, can take money from foreigners. (Hillary Clinton) has to be guilty of 70 or 100 counts just on that one charge."
Evidence Summary: Trump tweeted that Obama and the Democrats had violated campaign finance laws. This is false by omission, because it ignores an entire category of criminal offenses for, e.g., knowing and willful violations of campaign finance law. Trump called on Russia to find Hillary Clinton’s missing emails in July 2016. He added, “I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.’’ “The facts will indicate a path and I don't think we should impeach a president for any political reason, but I don’t think we can ignore any behavior that requires attention and that was all based on the facts.”

Claim: "The Islamic State is so small it couldnt fill a DoubleAballpark in Charleston, W. Va."
Evidence Summary: Islamic State has more than 20 to 30 times the fighters it had the last time it was left for dead. The crumbling of the state has made it difficult to recruit and only a trickle of new members are believed to still be heading to the region from overseas. Police in Greece, New York, announced a "serious plot" to attack the community of Islamberg in Delaware County, near the Catskills, had been uncovered by authorities. The enclave just west of the Catskill Mountains is dogged by terror accusations, many spread on right-wing websites.

Claim: "The Democrats' health care bills would provide ""free health care for illegal immigrants."""
Evidence Summary: New York Mayor Bill de Blasio announced plans to guarantee health care for all in the city – including illegal immigrants. California Gov. Gavin Newsom outlined a similarly ambitious health care agenda for his state, aimed at offering more benefits to illegal immigrants and protecting ObamaCare. A new poll found that Americans initially support ‘Medicare-for-all,’ 56 percent to 42 percent. The study provided further evidence that the Democratic Party is swinging to the left, adopting positions in its mainstream that were once on the fringes of party debate.

Claim: "[If] you apply for a job, the chances are 1 in 7 that you are going to be denied that job unfairly if everybody is forced to use E-Verify."
Evidence Summary: "I feel like if you’re using technology, it’s kind of expected that something's going to happen,” Erickson said. History has taught us that given the opportunity, governments will exploit new surveillance technologies. With face surveillance, we are at a crossroads. The choices made now will determine whether the next generation will have to fear being tracked by the government for attending a protest or going to their place of worship. That's why so many people have been sounding the alarm.

Claim: "When I was growing up as a kid in the city of Milwaukee, if we averaged 4 homicides a year in the entire city that was a record number."
Evidence Summary: "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets?" "We are thoroughly convinced that the killing of Jazmine Barnes was race related" "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public" "We've got to call it what it is. Black people are being targeted in this country" "Police and prosecutors have been getting increasingly savvy and creative and aggressive about going after older sex crimes and cover-ups than ever before"

Claim: "In recent years, Rep. LaTourette has sponsored legislation that would increase spending by 551.6 percent."
Evidence Summary: "We need to ask them to pay their fair share," says Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont. "I think you do need to get money out of politics," he says of the wealthy. "It's time for a new generation of leaders," Leahy says. "We need a new era of leadership" in Washington, he adds. "A new era in American politics" is needed, he says, "and it's not going to come soon enough"

Claim: "Forty aides who serve President Barack Obama owe $333,485 in back taxes."
Evidence Summary: Department of Transportation owes $350 million to 46,107 workers. Department of Commerce owes $130 million to 20,595 workers. Airport screeners make $41,000 per year on average, and have missed about $2,700 in wages so far. Obama for America failed to file required 48-hour notices for 1,312 contributions totaling $ 1,972,266 received prior to the general election. The campaign’s civil infraction resulted in an administrative penalty, primarily because it was deemed inadvertent.

Claim: "Says U.S. Senate candidate Tommy Thompson admitted that Washington, D.C., changed him into an insider selling his influence to make millions from powerful special interests."
Evidence Summary: The 2019 elections are our opportunity to end the Chicago City Council’s status as the center of political corruption. The problem for voters is telling genuine reform candidates from frauds. Since 1972, 33 aldermen have been convicted of crimes related to official duties. The litany of wrongdoing includes embezzlement, accepting bribes, ghost payrolling and the alderman who got a new tile floor in his basement from a grocer who needed a liquor license. Now attention is riveted on federal prosecution of Ald. Burke.

Claim: "In New York City, murders are up."
Evidence Summary: In Chicago, the third largest city in the U.S., there were 561 homicides between Jan. 1 and Dec. 31, 2018. That’s a decline of about 100 murders compared to 2017. Meanwhile, as of about mid-December, New York reported 278 murders and Los Angeles had 243. The Brennan Center for Justice estimates the 2018 overall murder rate in the country's 30 biggest cities declined by nearly 6 percent. Despite the general downward trend, some major cities including Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia saw significant increases in murders from last year.

Claim: "Obama has asked for $932-million in earmarks, literally $1-million for every day that hes been in Congress."
Evidence Summary: He's now demanding the money from Congress. It is so easy to do. I want to repeat again: the six bills that we want to pass until September 30th and then leave the one bill where there are questions for 30 days to discuss options. “I think there is a way to do it.”-- The President. ‘I think it’s important that we understand the needs of every member of Congress, especially the new members.’ ‘We can’t give you the details on this.

Claim: "When he took office in 2009, President Barack Obama had the biggest Democratic majorities in Congress since Lyndon Johnson."
Evidence Summary: The Dow fell more than 9% in Obama's first month in office. In the years to follow, the Dow climbed steadily as the economy began to slowly recover from the Great Recession. Trump is presiding over an economy that remains healthy. The Democrats have yet to find a compelling alternative economic message. Racial disparities in income, health, education and almost every other measure of social well-being remain. “Today we find ourselves in a situation where some of these black elected officials have been in office two, three decades,” Moore said.

Claim: "In 2009, Democratic Wisconsin state senators rammed through a billion-dollar tax hike in 24 hours with no public input."
Evidence Summary: “The worst-kept secret in Springfield is a massive tax hike,” says Illinois Conservative United. “We need to be strategic about funding roads, not predatory.” “Without more prudence in handling the huge budget crisis, more and more citizens will move to other states where tax rates are more equitable,’ says Illinois Republican Party official. � “This is not a blip or an outlier. This is the result of decades of government mismanagement and accumulation of public debt.’

Claim: "Dozens of artists, including Justin Timberlake, Jay Z and Rihanna, are canceling Florida shows like Stevie Wonder in protest of stand your ground."
Evidence Summary: Russian pop star Emin Agalarov cancels tour in the U.S. and Canada. He says he's been "put in this position against [his] will" His lawyer says the tour was "most definitely" cancelled because of the Mueller investigation. Federal workers rally in Los Angeles and other cities, demanding an end to the shutdown.. TSA administrator confirms a spike in sick calls is due to officers who can no longer afford to work for free.. Israel sees a growing threat from the BDS movement, which has led to increased boycotts of the Jewish state.

Claim: Says Newt Gingrichs contract was with the lobbyists at Freddie Mac.
Evidence Summary: Most mortgages are considered conventional loans, meaning they aren't backed by the federal government. As private companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac aren't directly affected by the shutdown. Mortgage processing is continuing as usual, except in cases where the government provides information required for underwriting. “The IRS has not been processing 4506-T tax transcripts — tax return verifications — which are required on most files, although that service is restarting," Rood says.“In two days of intense talks in Beijing that wrapped up Tuesday, U.S. and Chinese mid-level negotiators addressed a number of nettlesome issues and tried to specify how China would carry out pledges it made”

Claim: "Preventive care ""saves money."""
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. Israel is one of the few healthcare systems in the world that can truly claim to be primary care led. The NHS needs to hardwire a fundamental shift in resources to community services to be sustained over many years, not just five or ten. It may seem cold or callous to fixate on costs when lives are at stake, but money and resources are limited, and misdirected spending can lead to poor medical practices.

Claim: "Says Connie Mack IV co-sponsored a bill to take a third of the Social Security Trust Fund ... give it in individual accounts to the senior citizens, who then were to invest it in the stock market."
Evidence Summary: For most retirees, Social Security accounts for 50 percent to 80 percent or more of their total retirement income. As a result, a large part of their retirement income is already protected from falling stock markets. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence, with healthcare, a pension and paid time off.

Claim: "Our National Guard, as we saw in the Midwest flooding, can't function as effectively as it could. I was talking to National Guard representatives. Fifteen of their 17 helicopters in this region were overseas during the flooding."
Evidence Summary: The Pentagon has released a report detailing how dozens of U.S. military bases are already threatened by rising seas, drought and wildfire. “The effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to Department of Defense missions, operational plans, and installations,” states the 22-page document published Thursday. The congressionally mandated analysis looked at a total of 79 military installations around the country. The Defense Department found that 53 sites are currently vulnerable to repeat flooding.

Claim: I was pretty proud of being the only guy on the stage that ever had a job in the private sector.
Evidence Summary: PayPal joins other companies to offer assistance to federal government workers. Mobility in Europe is important for many private sector workers, especially in the tech sector. A report states that nearly 80 percent of full-time workers in the USA live paycheck to paycheck. Even in times of great technological advancement, an alarming number of Americans are being left behind, says David Cohen. He says PayPal is proud to stand alongside AT&T, Kraft, Hyundai and many others to offer help to federal workers.

Claim: "The 30 percent tax rate called for under President Barack Obamas proposed Buffett Rule is lower than the prescribed tax rate for millionaires already -- not just for millionaires, for people making over $200,000."
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has floated the idea of a 70 percent marginal tax rate on America's highest earners. The New Yorker’s Adam Davidson argues high taxes wouldn’t rake in that much cash, and they might even scare taxpayers out of the country. In 2010, for example, Mitt Romney made about $22 million dollars in investment income. He paid an effective federal tax rate of 14 percent. For normal upper-middle-class wage earners, the federal tax rates is nearly 40 percent.

Claim: "The U.S. Department of Defense spends $80 million a year on prostate cancer research, $25 million a year on ovarian cancer research and $150 million a year on breast cancer research."
Evidence Summary: The UK's funding increased by a huge 89% - representing an extra $87m (£67m) in the latest year tracked. The total investment was the largest seen since 2009. A small Australian not-for-profit organisation called Policy Cures Research has been paid by the Gates Foundation to monitor how new health technologies are funded. Its work looks at what drug companies, universities, governments and non-governmental organisations spend on detecting, treating or preventing big killer diseases. Research and development grants helping lesser-known illnesses - such as diarrhoeal diseases, dengue and leprosy - are also included.

Claim: FACT: Nothing in #Obamacare forces people out of their health plans.
Evidence Summary: The rules, scheduled to take effect Monday, would change an ObamaCare mandate by allowing more employers to opt out of providing no-cost contraceptive coverage to women by claiming religious objections. In a two-page decision, U.S. District Judge Wendy Beetlestone in Philadelphia cited the potential harm to states should the rules be enforced. Numerous citizens could lose contraceptive coverage, she wrote, resulting in the increased use of state-funded contraceptive services. The administration is also proposing to require insurers that cover abortion to offer a "mirror" plan that does not.

Claim: Department of Education officials investigating Virginia Tech shootings have not once gotten into the car and driven down to Blacksburg to talk to the police chief or the university president or to anyone else.
Evidence Summary: A state commission investigating the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School may have contributed to some deputies' inaction during the shooting. The Bennington Police Department concluded no crime had taken place. A single bullet fired into the air can come down at speeds of up to 300 feet per second and fall anywhere within a two-mile radius. "Celebratory gunfire anywhere is unacceptable and against the law," Michigan's Saginaw police department wrote on its Facebook page. "We want everyone to have a safe, enjoyable New Year's Eve without the fear that their life or someone else's may be cut short by a falling bullet"

Claim: "We are dealing with an administration that, quite frankly, has shown a reluctance to enforce the immigration law."
Evidence Summary: “Are we really seriously now talking about the military coming in and enforcing eminent domain? Does the Republican Party really want to preside over soldiers taking away Americans’ private property?’’ asked conservative radio host Charlie Sykes. NBC reported Monday that according to statistics from the U.S. Department of Customs and Border Protection only six immigrants on a terror watchlist have been detained in six months at the Mexican border. “The reality is that the number of arrests at the border are down dramatically from what they were in the year 2000,” Sykes said.

Claim: "When Social Security was passed, there were all kinds of lawsuits, just as there have been in the legal battle over the new health care law."
Evidence Summary: "I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments," he says. "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I'm doing" "I think this is more of a political issue," he adds. "I don't understand what the security question will be and what gets thrown in there" "The IRS was still figuring that out even with the full funding"

Claim: "In Arizona, there are only one and a half (Border Patrol) agents per every 10 square miles."
Evidence Summary: Nearly 20,000 border agents stationed across the country are currently working without pay. Border Patrol is approximately 7,500 agents below its target, even as Trump has pushed to hire more. The Border Patrol made 396,579 arrests on the Mexican border in the 2018 fiscal year, up 30 percent from a 46-year low during the same period a year earlier. In 2007, there were roughly 13,300 agents patrolling the U.S.-Mexico border. And that year, they detained 876,704 migrants, twice the number of apprehensions.

Claim: "(McCain) says ""we can't have ... timelines to draw down our troops from Iraq."""
Evidence Summary: Bolton said last weekend in Jerusalem that the drawdown is conditional and doesn't have a hard deadline. "The timetable flows from the policy decisions that we need to implement," he said. Those conditions, he said, included the defeat of remnants of ISIS in Syria, and protections for Kurdish militias who have fought alongside U.S. troops against the extremist group. Bolton's comments angered Erdogan, who abruptly canceled a planned meeting earlier this week. The Pentagon was initially told to plan for the withdrawal of US soldiers within 100 days.

Claim: "In Wisconsin, a woman only earns 80 cents for every $1 a man earns."
Evidence Summary: Citigroup says female employees earn 29 percent less than men do. The bank also reported that, among its U.S. employees, people of color earn 7 percent less. "The numbers are difficult," said Sara Wechter, Citigroup's global head of human resources. "We should obviously be at 100 percent parity, and that's what we're striving for," she said. "There is no reasonable reason to pay men more than women for the same work," students say.

Claim: "Loranne Ausleys a financial train wreck for taxpayers -- pushing gas taxes, property taxes, taxes on seniors."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Conservative United board member Jane Carrell sarcastically said that the flight of taxpaying citizens to other states apparently is not going quickly enough for the Illinois General Assembly. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," she said. House Speaker Michael Madigan’s television ad about being “on your side” is a bad joke on the taxpayers of Illinois, says one reader. “The worst-kept secret in Springfield is a rumored massive gasoline and diesel tax hike. Just when gas prices are finally falling, and little more than a year after income taxes were hiked 32 percent, greedy politicians seem all too willing to take more of our hard-earned money,” another says.

Claim: "Said he is the only Democratic candidate for state attorney general who has ""represented the entire state of Georgia."""
Evidence Summary: Sen. Lindsey Graham says Barr is "a known quantity, a man of the highest integrity and charachter, and has an impeccable reputation" Graham pledged to do "everything in my power" to confirm the nominee. Some Democrats including Mazie Hirono have voiced questions about Barr's independence. “I’m going to make a decision by the end of March. It’s going to be grounded in, ‘Am I the right person? Is it the right job, and is now the right time?”

Claim: "During the past four years, average wages have barely budged."
Evidence Summary: Average hourly pay improved 3.2 percent from a year ago, up from average wage growth of 2.7 percent at the end of 2017. Job growth at this pace is a sign that the economy will continue to expand for a 10th straight year. But wages in manufacturing suffered one of the largest declines in real wages, which slipped 2.4 percent last year. Transportation witnessed the biggest dip, with real wages losing 3.9 percent compared with a year earlier. At the same time, the tech sector roared ahead, with wages rising 2. 7 percent.

Claim: "Donald Trump Protester Speaks Out: I Was Paid $3,500 To Protest Trumps Rally."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump said Sarah Sanders gets paid $180,000 to not do her job. 800,000 federal workers are not getting paid, to either work without pay, or be furloughed. GoFundMe page established by Air Force veteran and motivational speaker Brian Kolfage in late December is approaching $20m from more than 330,000 donations. Hundreds rallied outside the White House to protest the partial government shutdown that is centered on the wall and has left 800,00 federal workers unpaid.

Claim: "Says Vladimir Putin said, President Obama and his fellow Democrats are either idiots or deliberately trying to destroy their own economy."
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration has implemented some of the strongest and most sweeping sanctions yet against Russian president Vladimir Putin's government, his acolytes and their businesses. The reverberations will be felt in Moscow, where anger and frustration over the impact of U.S. sanctions – and by implication, Vladimir Putin’s leadership – is increasing. The Russian president favors a retreating United States that has abandoned its values, granting open season to autocrats. There is not a despot on the face of the earth who fears Donald Trump's United States.

Claim: "Job losses are so certain under this new cap-and-tax plan that it includes a provision accommodating newly unemployed workers from the resulting dried-up energy sector, to the tune of $4.2 billion over eight years. So much for creating jobs."
Evidence Summary: Coal miner Martin Jackson says it's unfair his industry is targeted for closure by city-dwelling environmentalists. He's especially annoyed that so many people love to hate coal miners and yet aren't infuriated that furloughed federal employees eventually will get paid for work they didn't even do. The radical plan would force families to pay more to heat, cool and provide electricity to their homes. It would raise the same costs for businesses, farmers, government and organizations, driving up their operating costs – and raising the prices for just about all the good and services Americans buy.

Claim: "Extending current tax rates would average more than $100,000 a year to millionaires and even billionaires."
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez recently floated the idea of a 70 percent marginal tax rate on America's highest earners. The New Yorker’s Adam Davidson argues that high taxes wouldn’t rake in that much cash, and they might even scare taxpayers out of the country. But he thinks a wealth tax (on the value of what you own, not what you make) is where it's really at. The proposal also includes a job-guarantee program offering “a living wage job to every person who wants one”

Claim: "Over 22,000 unique Internet Protocol addresses -- in Wisconsin alone -- have downloaded child pornography."
Evidence Summary: Defense lawyers for former NSA contractor want deeper look at what he allegedly stole. At least 16 jurisdictions across the country have launched investigations into clerical sex abuse. In the past six months, Frattare said he has seen a "resurgence" in online child-predator hunting groups not seen since the early 2000s. The number of items of restricted illegal content skyrocketed in the second half of last year over the previous six months. It appears to be the same impulse that fueled Qanon, Pizzagate and other popular conspiracy theories obsessively "investigated"

Claim: "Under President (George W.) Bush, prosecution of gun crimes was 30 percent higher than it is under President Obama."
Evidence Summary: In 2009, then president-elect Obama expressed “a belief that we need to look forward as opposed to looking backwards” That view was at odds with a commitment to justice, since, by its very nature, justice is always retrospective. Obama’s governance strategy of burying the broadly accepted failures of the Bush presidency created a path for Bush's enablers in Congress to secure historic victories in the 2010 midterms. And the Obama administration's failure to prosecute bankers and other elites responsible for economic cataclysm added fuel to the fire of resentment that led so many Americans to the tea party.

Claim: "There are 300,000 babies born deformed every year in this country because of women who are alcoholics while they're carrying those children to term."
Evidence Summary: The stigma around her daughter’s condition was palpable, her mother said. “They kept telling her she had to go to rehab,” Terri Oesterle said. "This is about life and death. Now, Speaker Pelosi, Chuck Schumer, this is not a manufactured crisis. These are real statistics, real people, real lives and many deaths," he said. He added: "I committed adultery on my wife multiple times. I drank and gambled multiple times"

Claim: "Today, we have two Vietnams, side by side, North and South, exchanging and working."
Evidence Summary: Doug Lyford and Gary West served in Vietnam more than 50 years ago when they were barely out of their teens. Like many veterans of that unpopular war, they never spoke to anyone about their experiences. After college, in the mid-1990s, I visited Vietnam in hopes of better understanding my father’s experience at a similar age. But the warm and friendly welcome I received as a tourist in Vietnam bore no relation to what I knew must have been a trial by fire for him.

Claim: "A data system that goes along with Common Core is designed to collect up to 400 data points on each child, which can include personally identifiable data."
Evidence Summary: University of Wisconsin says it follows federal privacy laws and that student data are passcode protected, housed behind firewalls and accessible only to those authorized and trained to use them. Others worry that while the universities’ motivation might be good, the systems might be pushing low-income and minority students away from science, engineering or math fields. “I don’t think universities ought to be in the business of collecting that information in the first place, regardless of whether it’s relevant to our mission,” Alan Rubel said.

Claim: "When I was secretary of state, I had a very high approval rating."
Evidence Summary: “I am proud to be here to announce that I will do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes to remove a president,” he said. “Believe it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about.” “His ratings were lower than Richard Nixon in Watergate, right? Can - how is that possible?” "I applaud the president for re-evaluating what he's doing."

Claim: "Says under Mayor Cory Booker, Newark has seen violent crime up five years in a row, murder up five years in a row."
Evidence Summary: There were 561 homicides in Chicago between Jan. 1 and Dec. 31, 2018. That’s a decline of about 100 murders compared to 2017. But the figure still remains higher than the number of homicides in Los Angeles and New York combined. In Washington D.C., murders surged about 40 percent compared to last year, bringing the total number of murders to 160. In Baltimore, meanwhile, there was almost one killing per day – 307 in 2018 – a stark increase compared to 2011.

Claim: "It was President Obama's ""inaction that caused over three weeks to go by before he even approved the governor's plan to protect our marsh."""
Evidence Summary: On Wednesday Mr. Wheeler said he attributed the recent surge to an exceptionally hot summer and cold winter but said he believes the larger downward trend will continue. The new governor’s move was the latest in a string of executive orders aimed at distinguishing himself from former Republican Gov. Carter. Michigan Governor Rick Snyder ordered the city to begin pulling water from the Flint river instead of purchasing it from Detroit as a cost saving measure. Soon after, Flint's water turned dark as residents began experiencing lead poisoning symptoms and dying from Legionnaires disease.

Claim: "It costs us, logistically, three times more to fight in Afghanistan than it does in any other place."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has spent more than $130 billion in aid to Afghanistan, including $80 billion to train and equip its security forces. Afghan government forces control barely half the country, with the Taliban insurgents currently controlling or contesting more territory than at any time since 2001. A recent survey found that 57 percent of Americans, including 69 percent of military veterans, said they would support a decision by the president to remove all troops from Afghanistan.“It doesn’t have the support of the people. The heroin trafficking is up. There are multiple groups that are terrorist groups throughout Afghanistan”

Claim: Some 500 detainees were released from Guantanamo during the Bush administration.
Evidence Summary: Guantánamo Bay remains a 'stain on the human rights record' of the US, says Amnesty International. The US naval prison in Cuba opened on 11 January 2002. It still holds 40 Muslim men, many of whom have been tortured. Many of the detainees have been cleared for transfer for years. The prison, which once housed almost 250 inmates, has long been a source of controversy. It has remained in operation since Donald Trump, his successor as US president, signed an order to keep it open.

Claim: "The majority of public funding for the Marlins stadium came from hotel taxes, the burden of which is incurred by tourists who are visiting our city, NOT the resident taxpayers."
Evidence Summary: Sterling Bay yanked from its Lincoln Yards project two of its most controversial features. A 20,000-seat stadium that would have been built for a minor league soccer team owned by Cubs Chairman Tom Ricketts was pulled. Residents of Lincoln Park and Bucktown wanted neither of those features built. Alderman Brian Hopkins, 2nd, said he was reacting to community blowback about the stadium and entertainment district. But Tunney defended his attempts to influence property development in the Lakeview area surrounding Wrigley Field.

Claim: "Under the Arizona immigration law, police are required to check immigration status if someone's ""lawn is overgrown"" or if a dog is ""barking too loudly."""
Evidence Summary: Arriaga crossed into Arizona from Mexico a couple of years ago and had been working as a farm laborer in California's Central Valley. He has two prior DUI arrests, authorities said. Christianson blamed California's newly enacted “sanctuary state” law, SB 54, for prohibiting law enforcement in the state from reporting Arriaga as a "criminal illegal alien," to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The location was near where three migrants who crossed the border weeks earlier had gotten lost, according to the Phoenix newspaper.

Claim: "As a result of the House Republican bill, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office now confirms that families will see their health care premiums reduced by up to 10 percent."
Evidence Summary: The administration said the proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. President Trump, who once predicted "Obamacare" would "implode" or "explode," took credit for calm insurance markets. This will provide enrollees with greater ownership and control over the benefits they receive, which are portable as they change jobs, the administration says. The overriding concern for American families is rising health- care costs.

Claim: "Says U.S. Rep. Tammy Baldwin, a candidate for Senate, supports raising taxes by $858 billion."
Evidence Summary: A majority of voters support a proposal floated by U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to dramatically increase the highest tax rate on the wealthiest Americans. The proposed tax hike would affect those making $10 million or more. The Democratic party platform calls for a tax on carbon dioxide, an energy tax. If Democrats want to run a campaign for massive tax increases ahead of the 2020 elections, preach on. Back to Mail Online home. back to the page you came from.

Claim: "Right now, here in Texas, wind power is already cheaper than dirty fossil fuels."
Evidence Summary: "I think we are getting to a subsidy-free point," says Julian Zelizer. "But they also lead to more investment in low fuel economy cars and more driving" "Green New Deal" would eliminate all fossil fuels by 2030, including from agriculture, manufacturing, and the electric grid. It would also require “upgrades” to nearly every building in the country – a provision that would likely cost trillions of dollars and insert the federal government into every American’s home.

Claim: There is no precedent for what the Democrats are doing with this deception. ... We have never written a reconciliation bill to amend a law that does not exist.
Evidence Summary: The Democratic proposal is reasonable. It probably wouldn't pass with enough Republican votes to overcome a presidential veto. The Democrats repeatedly noted that the Senate unanimously passed a bill last month that would have kept the government open. There is no immigration crisis at the border, and any crisis that does exist is a humanitarian one caused by the president himself. Since the amnesty of 1986 the Dems and GOP have failed to do as promised! Secure the border. Make E-Verify mandatory [not just implement it!]

Claim: "I was one of the few, very few, who voted `no on the Iran deal."
Evidence Summary: “The only way to avoid no deal is to vote for the deal,” Nadler said. “Republicans just need to stay together, and I believe that will happen.” “Believe it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about,’ she said. "I am very hopeful that the deal will be voted through next week," Nadler told Fox News' Kaitlyn Schallhorn.

Claim: "He (Kirk) did violate Pentagon rules, twice actually, for improperly mingling politics with his military service."
Evidence Summary: "It's not acceptable as a veteran, as a federal employee, as an air traffic controller to use my profession and my livelihood as a political football," he said. Hunter said he feared that politics may be playing a role in the prosecution of Gallagher. "The chain of command has been broken and there's no commander in chief – it’s time to get on the right side of history,” he wrote. "Those who have served with him in combat describe him as nothing less than an American hero," Hunter wrote.

Claim: "Obama's plan to raise the capital gains tax ""hurts the middle class."""
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has floated the idea of a 70 percent marginal tax rate on America's highest earners. A wealth tax on the wealthiest 0.1 percent of Americans would raise $1.3 trillion over a decade. Conservatives have warned that high taxes on the very rich will stifle growth, lead to capital flight, and produce relatively minor revenue gains. The Tax Foundation has also warned against wealth taxes, arguing that "capital accumulation is an essential ingredient for economic growth"

Claim: "Doctors kill about 250,000 people a year in botched surgeries."
Evidence Summary: Researchers sketched a vivid line Friday linking the dollars spent by drugmakers to a vast opioid epidemic. For each three additional payments made to physicians per 100,000 people in a county, opioid overdose deaths were up 18 percent. Investigators have so far completed investigations for about half of the 500 doctors originally identified as possibly deviating from the standard of care. But you can’t write “medical error” on a death certificate, so no one’s quite clear on how many die that way.

Claim: "Obama ""changed the rules in Washington. Gone are the free gifts from lobbyists. Gone are the fancy airplane rides for nothing."""
Evidence Summary: Obama actively campaigned for Democrats in last year’s midterms, endorsing more than 300 candidates. While the party he once presided over is divided on most everything, they are united in their reverence to Obama. An unsettling lesson of the Trump presidency is that post-truth politics can be highly effective, especially when it comes to shoring up a political base. Future administrations will surely be more stable in terms of staff turnover. But it is easy to imagine Trump's successors pushing the bounds of executive authority in ways that breach constitutional norms.

Claim: "By the end of this budget Im in right now, taxes will have been cut $4.7 billion in my state."
Evidence Summary: The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years — as many economists believe it will — the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth, which in turn produces increasingly higher revenues several years down the road. The Tax Foundation predicts deficits will increase by $900 billion — double its original forecast. The budget deficit could be $985 billion. I want to give Congress $535 million in bonuses to balance the budget. We might save $984.4 billion.

Claim: "President Eisenhower, on the night before the Normandy invasion...[wrote a] letter of resignation to the United States Army for the failure of the landings at Normandy."
Evidence Summary: Pentagon chief of staff Kevin Sweeney resigns in wake of Syria withdrawal. He says it was an honour to serve, but made no mention of Donald Trump. Earlier this month Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis left his post. His resignation letter hinted at policy differences with the new president. The decision to withdraw 2,000 troops from Syria was not a momentous one, however. It was more likely a pretext to leave the administration and there will be a multimillion-dollar book contract next.

Claim: "Barack Obama has ""reversed"" on his commitment ""to begin withdrawing American troops from Iraq immediately."""
Evidence Summary: “I think I share the goal of the president to withdraw our forces. Let's just do it smartly.” “The ISIS state has been defeated,” Pence said. “Let me be clear: President Obama withdrew American forces from Iraq precipitously in 2011. ISIS rose up virtually out of the desert, overran vast areas of Iraq and Syria.’ “And that’s a criticism of what the Trump administration is doing in Syria now,’ Brennan interrupted.

Claim: "Between 2008 and 2014, criminal aliens accounted for 38 percentof all murder convictions in the five states of California, Texas, Arizona, Florida and New York."
Evidence Summary: Census analysis finds that illegal immigrants are less likely to be incarcerated for crimes than native-born Americans. Illegal immigrants accounted for 32 of 806 homicide convictions in Texas in 2016. That compares to 3,353 firearm deaths in Texas that year, including suicides, homicides and accidents. Trump doesn’t include a comparison to the general population’s crime rates, and the numbers he cited are arrests, meaning all did not result in convictions. In just the past two years alone, 4,000 criminal aliens have been arrested for homicide.

Claim: "Statistics show that more people at this time telecommute than they ride carpools, mass transit, bicycle or walk."
Evidence Summary: Fifty-four percent of motorists said new technology makes them better drivers, according to a Cox Automotive mobility study that was published last August. Millennials value in-car tech more than other generations – 54 percent versus 36 percent for Generation X and 31 percent for Baby Boomers, the study found. “People want more tech but it’s always the No. 1 complaint when it doesn’t work,” Michelle Krebs, executive analyst at Autotrader, said.

Claim: "In President Barack Obamas 2015 State of the Union address, the words al-Qaida were never used, the first time those words have not been used in a State of the Union address since February 2001."
Evidence Summary: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered the State of the Union address in Cairo. The speech went after Obama, while never mentioning his name, from nearly the outset. Former Obama administration officials rejected the assertions as petty, political and weak. Pompeo's speech came on the third leg of a nine-nation Mideast tour aimed at reassuring America's Arab partners that the Trump administration is not walking away from the region amid confusion and concern over plans to withdraw U.S. forces from Syria. "It's a speech shocking for its use of domestic politics," one analyst said.

Claim: "In fact New Jersey is a donor state, we get 61 cents back on every dollar we send to Washington. And interestingly Kentucky gets $1.51 on every dollar they send to Washington."
Evidence Summary: Republicans are trying to cut the federal dole to "taker" states and return more money to "maker" states. The states most dependent on federal funds (“takers”) tend to vote Republican (such as Kentucky) The states paying more than they receive in Federal funding (� "takers") tendto vote for Democrats ( such as Massachusetts) The GOP is still obsessed with former secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email system, insisting Team Clinton was not only stupid and careless.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton is proposing to print instant work permits for millions of illegal immigrants to come in and take everybodys jobs, including low-income African-Americans."
Evidence Summary: In terms of jobs and wages, unskilled African-American workers are vulnerable to economic pressure from undocumented immigrants. But that’s not discussed much, is it? In 2013, every single Democrat voted for $46 billion in border security, which included 700 miles in border fencing. Yet today, the Democrats are willing to shut down the government over just $5 billion. The facts paint a very different picture. Over the past two years, approximately 4,000 criminal aliens have been arrested for homicide; 30,000 for sex crimes.

Claim: "One of the interesting things about the Recovery Act was most of the projects came in under budget, faster than expected, because theres just not a lot of work there."
Evidence Summary: "The thing that businesses hate is uncertainty, and we've got a ton of it," Obama says. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he adds. "Getting things done actually matters to all of those issues that we’re talking about," he says. “Not just the people who aren’t getting paychecks but also the businesses being hamstrung by this shutdown, so the government really needs to get together and work this out.”

Claim: "Were spending $12,000 bucks a kid a year in the school system."
Evidence Summary: “We need to make sure that we don’t lose any of our children’s education,” he says. “I want to ensure that they get the education they need.” “We’re not getting the money that we need,’ he says, “and we need it now.’’ “It is time to change the way we’ve been doing things.“ “This is not enough. We need to do more, and we need to change how we do it,“ he adds.

Claim: "General Electric hasnt really created any jobs in this country, doesnt pay any taxes, and theyre making historic profits."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," Humpton says. "The net effect is that Tesla must work much harder than other manufacturers to survive while building affordable, sustainable products," he adds. "We need to change that in this country. We need to make sure that we have a Green New Deal that works for all of us," he says, "not just the people who aren't getting paychecks"

Claim: "In 2008, then-Sen. Barack Obama missed 60 or 70 percent of his votes. In 2004, John Kerry missed close to 60 to 70 percent and Bob Graham missed over 30 percent of his votes."
Evidence Summary: Former Vice President Joe Biden has 9 percent, followed by Sen. Kamala Harris, the Democrat from California who announced her candidacy just before this poll was conducted. Others mentioned include Sen. Bernie Sanders, 4 percent; former U.S. Rep. Beto O’Rourke, 3 percent; Sen. Elizabeth Warren, 2 percent; and Sen. Cory Booker, Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Sen. Amy Klobuchar, Rep. Nancy Pelosi and Oprah Winfrey.

Claim: "January through November 2014, the year so far, were the hottest first 11 months of any year recorded."
Evidence Summary: A new study suggests the oceans have been warming more rapidly than scientists previously thought. Last year, 29 countries, including much of Central Europe, and Antarctica had record hot years. Only 2016, 2017 and 2015 were warmer than last year, with only small differences among them. That was mostly because of natural yearly weather variations like El Nino and La Nina, Hausfather said. He said it would be foolish to call last year's slight dip a cooling trend. "The long term is stunningly clear," he said.

Claim: "[W]hen adjusted for cost of living, Georgia ranks first nationally in teacher salary and benefits."
Evidence Summary: Indiana ranked 31st among the 50 states in teacher pay during 2016, with average salaries of $50,715. That's lower than the five nearby states that the Holcomb administration wants to compare Indiana with. "We want to keep them and we can't do that just by staying where we are," says Teresa Meredith, president of the Indiana State Teachers Association. Americans by a similar 59 percent to 34 percent said teachers weren't paid what they're worth in a recent poll. Nearly four in 10 teachers say they had worked a second job over the past year to make ends meet.

Claim: U.S. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse rewarded Wall Street executives with millions in bonuses.
Evidence Summary: Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, D-R.I., talks with NPR's Mary Louise Kelly about his questioning of William Barr regarding the steps he'd take to protect the Mueller investigation as attorney general. Whitehouse: “Companies need to do more to respond to shareholder concerns and ensure pay rewards align with company performance and remain at levels that are justifiable to shareholders.” A £75m bonus pocketed by the boss of Persimmon, Jeff Fairburn, resulted in his ousting in November following an earlier investor backlash.

Claim: "Says the federal health care law upheld by the Supreme Court has improved or saved the lives of more than 4,000 Texans otherwise prevented from obtaining health coverage due to pre-existing conditions."
Evidence Summary: A Texas judge ruled last month that the Affordable Care Act, also called Obamacare, is unconstitutional. If the ruling is upheld, the future for millions of Americans like me who depend on ACA protections to obtain treatment could be bleak. I am terrified at the prospect of returning to the pre-ACA days, when many members of my family suffered in pain without medical treatment. For people like me and my loved ones, a return to that time could essentially be a death sentence. It will ultimately be up to Chief Justice John Roberts to do the right thing and prevent this outcome.

Claim: "And, as of today, New Jersey state government has less employees than when Christie Whitman left office in 2001."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom laid out his plans for the state on his fourth day on the job. Newsom has pledged to increase spending on early childhood education and a few other programs. He said he would continue the fiscal practices followed by the departing governor, Bruce Rauner. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "When I was born, defense spending was 60 percent of the budget. Its now 17 percent."
Evidence Summary: "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he says. "Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling" "We need the government to start focusing on our education," he adds. "The constant Cold War competition raged hot during the Carter administration and preoccupied me throughout the four years," he writes. "And the ironic thing is 30 years ago when I worked in New York covering finance, and he was exactly the same," a former colleague says.

Claim: "More lives are lost from violence against women, sex-selective abortion, female infanticide, suicide, egregious maternal mortality, and other sex-linked causes than were lost during all of the wars and civil strife of the 20th century."
Evidence Summary: Jeanne F. Mancini: The chains and shackles of misogyny encircle us all. She says we will not move forward until we understand that misogyny is embedded in our thinking. Women have long been advocating and organizing for our fundamental right to physical safety, she says. Women should look to the men closest to us and ask more of them, Mancino says. The March for Life will take place in Washington, D.C., on Saturday, Jan. 18.

Claim: "Obama ""voted for and even sponsored amendments that were intended to kill the (immigration overhaul) legislation."""
Evidence Summary: Obama said building a 700-mile fence on the southern border was consistent with the principles of the Democratic Party. Pelosi supported the Gang of Eight bill, saying at the time that "every piece of this legislation has had bipartisan support" Trump also falsely said that President Obama, when he signed the executive order to defer deportations for about 700,000 young immigrants, "admitted" that "this isn't going to work" He implied that Obama agreed with him that the order exceeded the president's authority.

Claim: "With Obamacare,You have no options ..you cant get competitive bidding."
Evidence Summary: Democratic attorneys general, consumer activists and others are also suing to stop the administration from expanding access to association health plans and to short-term coverage. The administration says consumers need alternatives to Obamacare plans, which can be expensive, especially for those who don’t qualify for subsidies. Opponents say that because the alternatives have fewer consumer protections and benefits, they will siphon healthy customers out of the Obamacare market – increasing the premiums for everyone left. Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans.

Claim: "John McCain has said the economy is ""not his strong suit."""
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. In the span of a year of SurveyMonkey polling, Mr. Trump has lost much of the approval he enjoyed with Americans on economic policy. Nearly as many respondents now say his policies are making the economy worse as say they are making it better.“My income is pretty directly tied to how the whole economy is doing,” retiree Pat Cafferata said.

Claim: "I believe, Senator Clinton, you've raised more money from those people (the oil and gas industry) than any candidate, Democrat or Republican."
Evidence Summary: "I get where they’re coming from. But my role in government is to manage a lot of competing interests," Giuliani says. "It is about money in politics, it's about the influence of money," he adds. "How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington, you think?" "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says."I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner"

Claim: Jason Carter actually opposed more funding for education in the Senate.
Evidence Summary: Jimmy Carter found himself at odds with Congress even though Democrats controlled both the House and Senate. Carter vetoed a defense bill that included funding for a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier. A 16-day shutdown in 2013 stemmed from a fight over funding for the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. Republicans in Congress approved a temporary measure that would fund the government but would cut funding to implement Obama's health care law. The law has remained unchanged for a decade, but there's new interest in renewing the bill in the Senate.

Claim: "Every day in the United States, we are losing 15 factories."
Evidence Summary: Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. But bellwether American businesses from Apple to General Motors have blamed the Trump administration’s policies on trade for falling sales and lost jobs. The Institute for Supply Management's most recent manufacturing index, while still expansionary at 54.1, fell by 5.2 points, the largest month-to-month drop since the financial crisis. President Donald Trump has defended the duties as necessary to protect American industries from what he says is unfair foreign competition.

Claim: "The Affordable Care Act is a major reason why weve seen 50,000 fewer preventable patient deaths in hospitals."
Evidence Summary: Smoking, poor diet and lack of exercise account for the vast majority of deaths in the U.S. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. The health care industry heavily markets its own importance and pushes treating illness over preventing it with lifestyle modification.Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. We’re deeply invested in the myth that medicine has drastically increased the human lifespan and will continue to do so.

Claim: "After Patrick Murphys charges were dropped, Murphys father gave the prosecutor a huge campaign donation."
Evidence Summary: Murphy's chief of staff and chief counsel asked Alvarez to leave in March and June. He left when it was clear that The Wall Street Journal was about to publish an account of Brennan's accusations. The Middlesex prosecutor has not detailed what it did in its review, but the office said it conducted an independent review of criminal allegations and declined to bring charges. Preckwinkle said her campaign returned the contribution to the donor because it exceeded the $5,600 contribution limit for individual contributions.

Claim: "Congressman John Lewis, an American hero, made allegations that Sarah Palin and I were somehow associated with ... the worst chapter in American history. ... And, Senator Obama, you didn't repudiate those remarks."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez: "There's a lot of people more concerned about being precisely, factually and semantically correct than about being morally right" Critics point to Palin's own history of errors. Congress formally apologized in 1990 by expressing its "deep regret on behalf of the United States" On Sunday night, President Trump used that same massacre as a punchline in his latest broadside against Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., the Democratic presidential hopeful whom he regularly calls "Pocahontas"

Claim: "The national debt is equal to $48,700 for every American or $128,300 for every U.S. household. It is now equivalent to the size of our entire economy."
Evidence Summary: David Frum: The obsession with debt is looking foolish even at full employment. He says the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. To win the anxious middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions, he says. Frum says the new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt, that this is a savage society we now live in. The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment, he writes.

Claim: This week the House of Representatives voted to remove the word lunatic from federal law.
Evidence Summary: Democrats have historically been the party of higher taxes, and they’re embracing that mantle once again during their first week in power. But more troubling than that, they have removed the requirement that such votes are recorded – so in theory, Democratic Members of Congress could vote to raise your taxes and you wouldn’t know which ones voted to do so. The package also changes the “motion to vacate’ rule so that a majority of a party’s membership must agree before allowing a vote to remove the Speaker of the House.

Claim: "Less than 2 percent of illegals are picking crops, but 41 percent are on welfare."
Evidence Summary: President Trump tweeted that 39 percent of federal prisons are filled with immigrants. The Bureau of Prisons says 21 percent of inmates are immigrants, both legal and undocumented. The study's author says the U.S. has made "tremendous progress" in reducing undocumented immigration. "In another era, we would be celebrating our success," said Robert Warren, author of the study. "The big Asian countries of China and India are sending more people to the United States each year now than Mexico," said Rep. Lois Capps.

Claim: "Sen. Joe Biden, the ranking member of the Foreign Relations Committee, recommended partitioning Iraq into three separate entities."
Evidence Summary: Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham says a U.S. withdrawal from Syria without a plan would lead to chaos and an "Iraq on steroids" Graham spoke to reporters in the Turkish capital Ankara on Saturday, a day after meeting with Turkish officials. Graham has generally been a Trump ally but has not supported plans to withdraw the 2,000 U.N. troops in Syria. Lawmakers in both parties have criticized the decision, saying it will allow ISIS to regain strength and will leave the U.s.-allied Syrian Kurds vulnerable to attack from Turkey.

Claim: "Thirty million Americans, including a lot of people in Florida, are going to be able to get healthcare next year because of that law."
Evidence Summary: The result was a sharp drop in insurance premiums, which are now among the lowest in the nation. Now that Democratic control has expanded, we can expect to see more of this kind of activism. Gavin Newsom, California’s new governor, has proposed further action on health care, including a New Jersey-style state-level mandate and expanded subsidies for the middle class. And New York City's mayor is proposing measures that would, he says, guarantee coverage for all New Yorkers, including undocumented immigrants.

Claim: "Under President Obama, domestic oil production is at an eight-year high."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump said the stock market is poised for another year of SUCCESS. The Dow had increased 149 percent during President Barack Obama’s eight years in office, but Trump insisted he deserved the credit for a spectacular turnaround. Most presidents don’t talk much about theStock Market, for good reasons: It's not a reliable evaluator of presidential policies, or the best reflection of the state of the economy. Trump's claim of positive pocketbook news for Americans appeared to be offered, at least in part, as an antidote to a sour 2018 on Wall Street, where stocks posted their worst performance in a decade.

Claim: Theres only one candidate under investigation -- Terry McAuliffe.
Evidence Summary: The state elections board, which has no power to prosecute election cases, forwarded its evidence to the federal prosecutor's office in Raleigh. The U.S. Attorney since September 2017 has been President Donald Trump's nominee, Robert Higdon. Harris suggested Democrats may have known about illegal ballot-harvesting activities in Bladen County but didn't complain until after November's election so that it would booby-trap the Republican's victory. Neither Harris nor McCready have responded to interview requests from The Associated Press.

Claim: "Currently, there is no one from South Austin on the (Austin City) Council!"
Evidence Summary: Two years later, residents recall the influx of media outsiders with disdain. “They assume we’re a bunch of uneducated hillbillies, without actually learning who we are and what our community is about,” says Lindy Thompson, owner of the Sage Matt cafe. City Bureau’s founders emphasized the ways their training might improve the lives of residents. ‘We weren’t asking for something back,’ said City Bureau founder Holliday. "That would not have been possible without the support of the residents of Harris County."

Claim: "The percent of students who enter high school and eventually earn a diploma or equivalent, or who remain in pursuit of a diploma or equivalent, is 90 percent."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education. Education is supposed to be a ladder to prosperity, but in the decades-long push to open college doors wide, an unintended casualty has been the college dropout. The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960. A college degree remains the surest path to prosperity. Student loans should aid that pursuit, not impede it.

Claim: "We have been focusing so much, especially the Texas Department of Transportation, on that 97 percent of people in single-occupancy vehicles."
Evidence Summary: "We will do whatever’s necessary to keep food on the table and gas in the cars," says Mr Gonzalez. "Giving people an alternative to the car benefits the environment and social mobility," he adds. "We're looking for a bearded man, possibly in his 40s, driving a red pickup truck," he says. "This could be your neighbour. This could be a co-worker." "We know we're in Texas. Yes, we know we have a lot of pickup trucks out there," Mr Gonzalez says.

Claim: "When those restrictions expire (in the Iran nuclear deal), Iran will have an industrial-size military nuclear capability ready to go."
Evidence Summary: Last year’s nuclear posture review was summed up as “nuclear weapons are back in a big way’ The new missile defence review proposes investing heavily in questionable technology. One hope is that Congress balks at the huge sums indicated by the two plans. The second is that Europe”s desperate shoring-up of the Iran deal in the face of growing pressure, and its lobbying for an extension or renegotiation of New Start, will pay off.“I think the best we can hope for is not to get into a war,” he said.

Claim: "Obamas secretary of energy, Dr. Steven Chu, has said publicly he wants us to pay European levels (for gasoline), and that would be $9 or $10 a gallon."
Evidence Summary: U.S. gasoline prices on the last day of 2018 were down by a quarter a gallon from a year earlier, according to the Energy Department. The oil analyst-in-chief sees even cheaper fill-ups in 2019. Analysts are expecting a high single digit percentage rise of nearly £100 for a typical annual fuel dual bill. GasBuddy predicts prices will rise this spring as OPEC cuts oil production and the U.s. economy remains strong, generating demand for gasoline. Experts said Trump can take some credit for the increased supply of gas that has driven prices lower.

Claim: "$100,000 in stimulus funds (were) used for a Martini Bar and Brazilian Steakhouse."
Evidence Summary: Nearly $50,000 was spent on a Las Vegas Caesar’s Palace event, and $6,000 at the nearby Omnia Nightclub. Another $60,000 went toward food and lodging at the ARIA Resort & Casino. Thousands more bought tickets for an event at the luxurious Bellagio hotel and tickets for a Michael Jackson One concert. Other funds went to tours and restaurants, the federal records show. The caucus also gave contributions to the Latino Victory Fund, a progressive PAC that aims to increase Latino political power.

Claim: "Says if labor force participation rate were the same as when Barack Obama became president, unemployment would be 11 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The proportion of the population in the labor force has risen sharply since 2012, by more than 10 percent. It’s unclear as to why Goodwin is bringing up the remarks again, half a year later.

Claim: "Under Obama's tax plan, ""95 percent of you will get a tax cut."""
Evidence Summary: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act provides only marginal or no benefits for average Americans. $200 billion in benefits from the new law, out of a total of $275 billion, goes to the top 20 percent of households. White households will receive $2,020 on average in benefits compared with $970 and $840 for Latino and black households respectively. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Ocasio-Cortez said.

Claim: "Austin has over 1,000 city employees that make six-figure salaries."
Evidence Summary: There are 15,000 open jobs in the city right now, Strickland's spiel goes. That would be almost a sixth of the existing private-sector workforce for defense contractors and government IT specialists in the area. Memphis is among the nation’s biggest hubs of medical device manufacturing. Its hospitals need workers, as do distribution companies like FedEx. Tennessee's free college program has been as popular in Memphis, whose population is a majority African American, as it has been in the state's predominantly white rural counties.

Claim: The state [food stamp call center] program is administered from foreign shores.
Evidence Summary: Government Shutdown Puts Federal Food Stamp Program In Jeopardy David Greene talks with Michael Wilson of Maryland Hunger Solutions about how the partial government shutdown has affected SNAP benefit recipients. People who use food stamps should get their normal amount of benefits early on January 20, but they will have to last until the end of February. Earlier this week programs that distribute food and provide health care for Native Americans around the country said they were having to cut back on services because the already underfunded programs weren't receiving money.

Claim: Says the acting chief of the IRS said he and the majority of IRS employees would rather stay with his current health plan than switch to Obamacare.
Evidence Summary: Some IRS employees are still working to implement the Republican tax plan, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which contained its own funding for two fiscal years. The remaining 12.5 percent of IRS employees still working are mostly those classified as serving "in the protection of life and property"Premiums for people on the ObamaCare exchanges have been rising rapidly since their creation. Yet in October, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced that average monthly premiums on Healthcare.gov will decrease for the first time in 2019.

Claim: There was no surge in 501(c)(4) applications in 2010.
Evidence Summary: The fire is not being treated as suspicious at this time. No one was injured in the fire. There is no organized effort to persuade federal workers to stay home from their jobs or to support any who do stay home. The fire was caused by an electrical fire in a building in the city's downtown area. The cause of the fire is still under investigation, the fire service said. It is not known if the fire caused any damage to the building or the surrounding area. No injuries have been reported so far.

Claim: "The extra point is almost automatic. (The NFL) had five missed extra points this year out of 1,200 some odd attempts."
Evidence Summary: Brady lofted a pass to Gronkowski along the far sideline, just four yards from the goal line. The oracle of overtime then augured that Brady would toss to Edelman in the middle of the field. "Watch the top of the screen. There he is," said CBS play-by-play man Jim Nantz of Gronkowski. "Inevitably, I suspect it probably gets challenged in court," he said of Brady's pass to the wide-open Edelman.

Claim: "Says that under his tax plan, no matter where you are in the stratosphere, youre going to be getting a tax cut."
Evidence Summary: O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," O'Brien said. Warren also criticized Trump for his 2017 tax cut, claiming that it gives more than a trillion dollars to billionaires and corporations. Hannity is losing it over progressive Democrats’ Green New Deal, a policy proposal that would push the country toward 100 percent renewable energy over about a decade.

Claim: "Planned Parenthood is the only health care that a significant number of women get. About 30 percent of women, thats their health care."
Evidence Summary: Planned Parenthood Action Fund: "Birth control IS health care" Most Americans get their health insurance through their employers. Most employers voluntarily provide contraceptive coverage, government officials have said. "We will not stop until every person in every state has the access to the health care they need. No matter what," said Planned Parenthood Action fund spokeswoman in a statement. "A 60-year-old couple doesn’t need maternity coverage. Why should they be forced to pay for it?" – Charles Krauthammer in the Washington Post in March 2017.

Claim: "Says Texas has been waiting for two years for the federal government to act on a proposal to allow the state to ""create insurance opportunities for those that are uninsured today."""
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom, California’s new governor, has proposed further action on health care. He wants a New Jersey-style state-level mandate and expanded subsidies for the middle class. Washington’S governor is proposing creation of a public option, a state insurance plan residents can buy into. And New York City's mayor is proposing measures that would, he says, guarantee coverage for all New Yorkers, including undocumented immigrants. The result was a sharp drop in insurance premiums, which are now among the lowest in the nation.

Claim: "We had a massive landslide victory, as you know, in the Electoral College."
Evidence Summary: "Whatever happens, I'm always going to know that fact. Even if I have to spend the rest of my life convincing the administration, or whoever comes next" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before," he says. "This is a law that's been on the books for 150 years. And people have fought for years to overturn it" "I was obviously a good candidate. ...I won everything I did, and I won," Trump says.

Claim: "If Rhode Island raises the meal and beverage tax to 10 percent, it would be the fourth-highest in the nation."
Evidence Summary: Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy. Illinois Conservative United board member Jane Carrell sarcastically said that the flight of taxpaying citizens to other states is not going quickly enough. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Carrell said. "Rushing in to approve a massive gas tax hike just because fuel prices are low is reprehensible," said John Skillicorn.

Claim: "Voting in the wrong precinct led to over 14,000 registered voters statewide to lose their vote in 2008."
Evidence Summary: Many problems in the voting process before, on and after Election Day are avoidable. Most of the problems voters reported can be solved with simple, commonsense reforms. In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. These purges, conducted against citizens for merely having missed an election or two, are a new form of voter suppression, as partisan politicians have used their power to purge citizens, many of whom are people of color, likely to “vote the other way.”

Claim: "While CEOs of some large charities have big salaries, the heads of some veterans groups do the job for free."
Evidence Summary: The shifts, while perhaps inevitable, leave some worrying that the hard work of pressing for the complicated and expensive health care needs, and other issues, will lack a generation of new leaders. “These smaller groups don’t do policy advocacy while the Big Six have been carrying all the water,” said Kristofer Goldsmith, an assistant director for policy and government affairs at the Vietnam Veterans of America. Gary West, founder of West Health, was a self-made billionaire businessman who had recently begun a second career as a philanthropist. He’s a hardworking, pragmatic businessman who brings an entrepreneurial zeal to his philanthropy.

Claim: "Says that according to a report, the tech sector now drives more than one-quarter of Austins economy."
Evidence Summary: Software and application developers remained the most sought-after tech workers. U.S. employers last month added a seasonally adjusted 312,000 new jobs, the fastest pace since February. The unemployment rate inched up to 3.9%, from 3.7%, as more workers entered the workforce. That compares with a year-end unemployment rate in IT of 2.1%, CompTIA estimates.. The aging baby boomer generation, the proliferation of high-speed internet access, and the alcoholic beverage preferences of the millennial generation all help explain hiring surges in a number of different occupations.

Claim: "The form students fill out to get college financial aid is ""longer than the form to get U.S. citizenship."""
Evidence Summary: Washington already owns or guarantees $1.4 trillion in student loan debt to nearly 43 million borrowers. Students are taking out more and more in loans, both public and private, to cover the costs. Resolving it will require everyone to work together to better educate student and parent borrowers about balancing aspirations with debt. The Chronicle of Higher Education, an industry journal, is one of many outlets that have been covering the recent events surrounding Secretary of Education Betsy Devos' comments on Financial Aid and the burden it places upon students.

Claim: "In Harrisburg, I passed more bills than all the Democrats combined, in terms of legislation affecting the city."
Evidence Summary: "I’m running full speed here. The campaign for mayor is about much, much more than one individual or any one episode," Rahm Emanuel says. "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before," he adds. "We're diverse, but we all come together when we’ve got to get things done," Rep. Sheila Krumholz, D-Texas, says.

Claim: "Says Obama wants to give (Iran) nuclear weapons and Michael Bennet, he was all for it."
Evidence Summary: Bennet said he was "thinking about it ... like every other person in [the Senate.]" Joe Biden said that white Americans need to acknowledge and admit the fact that systemic racism still exists and must be rooted out. Biden defended a paid speech in Michigan in which he praised Republican Rep. Fred Upton, who then went on to defeat his Democratic opponent. The remarks were criticized by local Democrats, who saw it as a damaging error, according to a New York Times report. The former vice president argued that not everything should be viewed through the lens of partisanship.

Claim: "This year, Newt Gingrich has raised as much money as Mitt Romney, Tim Pawlenty, Sarah Palin, and Mike Huckabee combined."
Evidence Summary: GOP worried about 'blue wave' but now worry about 'green wave' $39.67 is the average donation to ActBlue, the online fund-raising hub used by more than 90 percent of Democrats. More than 100 Democratic candidates outraised their Republican counterparts in hotly contested congressional races. Tom Steyer spent more than $100 million of his own money helping Democrats get elected, and he says he will drop another bundle on Senate races in 2020. Bill Gates, the second-richest man in the world, has pledged to give away the bulk of his fortune.

Claim: "Over the last 40 years, real wage growth has been flatlined because of the policies of the Federal Reserve ... It was all driven by the Federal Reserve."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy’s very hot job market is unlikely to spark big wage gains soon, new research from the San Francisco Fed says. In the paper released on Monday, bank economists sought to understand why a job market that is below most everyone's estimate of sustainability still isn’t driving up wages in the way the textbooks say it should. I suggested that the best solution was for government to pursue policies that encourage economic growth, job creation and increased wages. The Fed hiked rates four times last year, including in December when policymakers’ forecasts pointed to two more rises this year.

Claim: "Seniors will have to find $12,500 for health care because Republicans voted to end Medicare."
Evidence Summary: 'This is the new theme, for two years until the Wall is finished (under construction now), of the Republican Party. Use it and pray!’ Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. Two minutes later, the president tweeted: ‘BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!' The slogan would seemingly replace the old, 'BUILD THAT WALL’ that so many Trump supporters have chanted at rallies across the country since he announced his intention to run for president in 2015.

Claim: "Says she has bipartisan support, including 53 sheriffs throughout the state, Democrats and Republicans."
Evidence Summary: “I proudly have an ‘F’ rating with the NRA," she told voters in Iowa over the weekend. “I think what we see that's really unique in her, though, is that she is leaning into her record as a prosecutor.” “Some of the rhetoric nationally has been pretty ugly, especially around the #MeToo movement and the way that our president speaks about women,” said Catherine Barrett, 28, a Republican from Lenexa, a suburb in Johnson County.

Claim: "President Obama promised families making less than $250,000 a year would not see taxes go up, but Obamacare raises 18 different taxes."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy. Julian Zelizer: The wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. He says the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations. Zelizer says the new law provides only marginal or no benefits for average Americans and households of color in particular. after 2020, Democrats have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda.

Claim: "In Texas, a faceless hospital panel can deny life-sustaining care, giving you only 10 days to find another facility for your mother, dad, or young child, even if the patient is conscious."
Evidence Summary: The ambulance carrying Tiffany Tate was sent to a hospital three miles away that offered only limited stroke care. Federal law requires hospitals to treat patients who arrive in their emergency room and make sure they are stable before releasing or transferring them. But if you’re in an ambulance that’s ordered not to come, the law is irrelevant. In other words, hospitals sometimes create their own problem. The problem is a poor system for moving patients through the hospital, creating bottlenecks that hamper the ER.

Claim: "One in four Texans lacks health insurance, the highest proportion in the nation."
Evidence Summary: 13.7% of U.S. adults lacked health insurance in the last three months of 2018, according to a new survey by Gallup. If correct, the numbers would signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Under Scott Walkers policies, the typical Wisconsin family has actually seen their real income drop by nearly $3,000 in the last four years."
Evidence Summary: Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "Says. Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, once said, Wind is a finite resource and harnessing it would slow the winds down, which would cause the temperature to go up."
Evidence Summary: Sixty-two percent of those surveyed said global warming is mostly caused by humans – which is what science has shown. Fifty-four percent of Americans said they haven't yet felt the effects of global warming, but that number is at its lowest level in a decade. The more you rely on wind, the more exposed you are to its intermittence. Wind power is 3.5 times costlier. The Green New Deal would empower and give handout to left-wing special interest groups and industries.

Claim: "Under Floridas voting law, a requirement to turn in voter registrations within 48 hours makes it impossible to meet the deadline if youre working right to the end of the week."
Evidence Summary: Amendment 4 will go into effect at midnight on Jan. 8. Voting rights advocates have encouraged eligible former felons, also referred to as returning citizens, to register to vote as soon as possible. Election supervisors across the state posted notices at their offices and websites saying they would accept the registration forms starting Tuesday. Some are worried that signing a voter registration form before the rules are clear could potentially be a criminal offense. But it's unlikely anyone would be prosecuted in such a case, though.

Claim: "Biden was responsible for ""ending genocide in Bosnia."""
Evidence Summary: Biden is the perfect candidate for President Trump to face in his re-election bid. Biden is a professional politician who has been in Washington for 45 years straight. He is intimately linked to their political Antichrist, former president Barack Obama. It is Hillary Clinton 2.0, albeit without the additional benefit of sexism. And, talking about #MeToo, many within the movement will not forgive Joe Biden's role in Anita Hill’s “sexual harassment inquisition”

Claim: "Repealing the sales tax on boats in Rhode Island has spawned 2,000 companies, 7,000 jobs and close to $2 billion a year in sales activity."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. private sector added 271,000 jobs last month. The number of Americans filing new applications for unemployment benefits rose by 10,000 last week. A measure of factory activity in China’s manufacturing sector hit its lowest level in three years. The latest jobs survey from the National Federation of Independent Business, due out later today, shows a historically vibrant labor market among small firms. More: America's dying industries: These businesses lost the most workers in the past decade.

Claim: "Last year, 244 suspected terrorists walked into gun shops and attempted to purchase a firearm; 223 were able to get the firearm."
Evidence Summary: "We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control and ultimately fuel serious violence," he said. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he added. The figure she seems to be citing is based on 2017 data, not 2018, and refers to stops made by Department of Homeland Security. In fiscal 2017, the latest year for which data is available, the agency prevented nearly 4,000 known or suspected terrorists from "traveling to or entering the United States"

Claim: Dan Gelber: On the record against scholarships to help our needy children attend Jewish private schools.
Evidence Summary: American Jews and Israeli Jews need each other and must support each other. Anti-Semitic incidents in the U.S. rose 57 percent in 2017. While criticism of Israel is not inherently anti-Semitic, it can slide there, says Maxine Fookson. The absence of a designated representative of the United States government is a glaring omission, she says. The moral authority that the envoy’s stature has provided in the past has opened minds and created dialogue around the world, she adds.

Claim: "The cost to implement Florida's class size amendment so far has been ""$16 billion."""
Evidence Summary: The union wants to remove contract language that allows district officials to increase class sizes in order to save money. The union complains there aren’t enough nurses and other support staff to serve the district’s 1,322 schools. Even as California enjoys a nearly $9 billion surplus and L.A. Unified possesses $1.8 billion in reserves, average high school class size in the district has grown to 42 students. "The eyes of the nation are watching, and educators and nurses and public employees all throughout the country have the backs of the educators," Randi Weingarten said.

Claim: Secretary Geithner has left the option on the table of abandoning the dollar for a multinational currency.
Evidence Summary: The U.S. dollar was left flat in Thursday afternoon trade after first rising on a report. The greenback rose against a euro dragged lower by soft economic data. The pound took off on hopes of a second referendum on Britain’s membership in the EU. The dollar index initially rose 0.07 percent to 96.124, until a repudiation of the report from the Treasury secretary's office left the index last at 96.058, unchanged from the previous day's close.

Claim: "Says Scott Walker cut funding to local governments in Wisconsin, contributing to the second-largest increase in violent crime in the Midwest."
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. "He leaves office with the tax burden at a 50-year low and unemployment near record lows," Republican U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson said in an email. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "Says that according to one economist, $1 of unemployment benefits boosts the economy by $1.61."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The unemployment rate rose from a 50-year low of 3.7 percent to 3.9 percent as an additional 419,000 Americans began working or looking for jobs. The health care, food services, construction, and manufacturing sectors were the primary contributors to last month's hiring.

Claim: "Just two weeks ago, Congressman Hurd quit his post on the House Committee on Small Business saying that he was unable to find the time to serve."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Tom Marino, R-Pennsylvania, announced he will step down at the end of the year. He was nominated to be the next president of the United States, but later withdrew. He says he is stepping down because he wants to spend more time with his family. He also wants to focus on his role as a member of the House of Representatives, where he will serve until 2018. The House will hold a special election to replace Marino on April 2. The election will be the first since the shutdown began.

Claim: "Susie Lee and her husband own 17 homes across the country and use their private jet to take vacations, and invest in companies like Walmart, Halliburton and GEO Group."
Evidence Summary: In 2006, when Gary and Mary sold their controlling interest in their business, West Corporation, they became billionaires. “Mary and I don’t have children, so we decided to give 100 percent of our fortune to our own charities that provide quality and affordable healthcare to low-income seniors,” Gary explained. A husband and wife accused of defrauding Swisher Sweets International out of almost $4 million used that money to buy precious metals, vehicles, guns and ammunition.

Claim: "Says for the first time in the history of the United States, the government cut taxes during wartime"
Evidence Summary: Think tank that projects large growth boosts from tax cuts has revised its forecast. It now predicts deficits will increase by $900 billion — double its original forecast. President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes.” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and Mr. Bush wasn’t re-elected. A similar tax rate was imposed in the U.S. for 35 years after World War II, which included some of the “most successful periods of economic growth in history”

Claim: "Georgia is now the eighth most populous state in the nation, moving from the number 10 position in just four years."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy is in good shape, despite the circus in Washington. While Illinois is shrinking, its Midwestern neighbors are growing. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. Georgia is one of the states you want to look at for 2020 presidential candidates, Pritzker says. The ‘Illinois Exodus’ is swelling in the Midwestern states, including New York and California.. “The people here are friendly. And the weather is appealing.” — Lyndsay Hunsaker, explaining why she moved to Texas.

Claim: "Says Travis County Sheriff Greg Hamilton has accepted $42,000 from strip-club interests and $10,000 from local alcohol distributors."
Evidence Summary: Federal prosecutors say the mayor allegedly solicited money from John Cortina, of Kustom Auto Body, and “Individual A” and gave them a towing contract for Portage. Snyder received an additional bribery indictment for alleged accepting $13,000 in connection with a Board of Works contract. A third charge alleges Snyder obstructed or impeded internal revenue laws. Cortina last week pleaded guilty to a charge that he paid bribes to Snyder to get a spot on the tow list.

Claim: "Says that since lawmakers acted, we have 130 new businesses across Texas doing helicopter hog hunts."
Evidence Summary: Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao announced that the government is ready to lift those bans as long as operators are properly trained and the drones are equipped with anti-collision lighting. Chao says that by mid-December, the FAA had registered nearly 1.3 million drones nationwide and had registered more than 116,000 drone operators. The changes could allow for drones to to be used to survey construction sites and to deliver critical medical supplies to first responders, among other uses. The U.S. Congress last year gave the Department of Justice and Department of Homeland Security new powers to disable or destroy threatening drones.

Claim: When New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer wanted to provide drivers licenses to those who are undocumented. (Hillary Clinton) said dont do it.
Evidence Summary: Kirsten Gillibrand once advocated closed borders and “expedited” deportations. She also said she was “firmly against providing amnesty to illegal immigrants’ The senator responded by saying it was ‘important to know when you are wrong and to do what is right’ “I think we have to make it possible for people to provide for their families,” the New York Democrat said Wednesday, as she was leaving to attend her 2020 presidential campaign kickoff event.

Claim: "Cass Sunstein, President Obama's nominee for regulatory czar, ""wants to give legal standing to animals so they can sue you for eating meat."""
Evidence Summary: A federal judge has ruled that Iowa's "ag gag" law is unconstitutional, saying the industry-backed statute violates the First Amendment's free-speech protections. A federal judge also admonished the Environmental Protection Agency for trying to delay a rule improving safety at facilities using hazardous chemicals. A recent congressionally mandated report confirming the immense, intensifying impacts of climate change on human health and the economy is likely to present an additional hurdle for Trump’s agencies’ efforts to roll back pollution standards.

Claim: "Gas prices have doubled because Obama opposed exploring for energy in Alaska. He gave millions of tax dollars to Solyndra, which then went bankrupt. And he blocked the Keystone pipeline. So we will all pay more at the pump."
Evidence Summary: Experts say President Trump's claim of lower gas prices is oversimplified. The U.S. became the world's largest oil producer last year. Experts say tying one's economic fortunes to the notoriously volatile price of oil and gas is a dicey proposition. Trump's tax cuts have not yet paid for themselves, an expert says, and there's no evidence they will in the future.. The tax cuts are not going to pay for themselves; they haven't to date, a senior vice president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget says.

Claim: "Says Lee Leffingwell has been mayor of Austin, Texas for about as long as Sarah Palin was governor of Alaska."
Evidence Summary: Hidalgo’s experience was emblematic of a phenomenon that researchers from the University of Texas had found in 2018. Residents of the west and south sides said they felt “underrepresented or poorly represented” in local news compared to north side residents. Yet despite their experience of receiving negative coverage, those same residents were more willing than northside residents to be engaged with news organizations. “We weren’t asking for something back,” Holliday said. ‘It is a distinct honor to stand on all your shoulders,’ Freeman-Wilson told the panel.

Claim: "Just in the past 10 years, college tuition has increased 28 percent."
Evidence Summary: The cost of college has increased more than sevenfold since 1983. Students are regularly taking more than four years to graduate. The nation has a 1.5 trillion-dollar debt in federal student-loans which are held by about 45 million borrowers. The Federal Reserve has linked rising student debt to a drop in homeownership among young Americans and the rise in the cost of living. The cost of higher education is rising faster than the rate of inflation. The federal government has reacted by ratcheting up the amount people can borrow.

Claim: "Gov. (Scott) Walker has yet to create a job, he gives away millions to his friends, and he raises taxes on working people."
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. "He leaves office with the tax burden at a 50-year low and unemployment near record lows," Republican U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson said in an email. "Every employer I talk to tells me there are more jobs available than there are people to fill them," he said. "His conduct and that of those like him laid the groundwork for the modern Republican Party led by Donald Trump," Tate said.

Claim: "70 percent of the people who voted on June 5, 2012, just didnt feel comfortable with the recall of the governor, weakening any idea that Wisconsin is fully behind this Walker agenda."
Evidence Summary: To his critics, Walker divided and deeply scarred Wisconsin. Walker signed into law a litany of Republican priorities. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said. "People don't have to necessarily agree with it to respect it, and I hope people would respect that over time," he said.. "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate.

Claim: "A sign in Dearborn, Mich., for the Advancement of Islamic Agenda for America says, Allah be praised. America we will kill you all and nothing you can do to stop it."
Evidence Summary: In falsely seeing ourselves as a force for what ails the Middle East, we were timid about asserting ourselves when the times—and our partners—demanded it. It is untrue that Obama claimed radical Islamic terrorism does not stem from ideology. What he said was that the 9/11 terrorists did not represent the full face of Islam. It’s a sentence many Muslims wary of the austere Saudi state-sponsored interpretation of Islam would nod to, even if official politics, clerical circles and Muslims’ desire to visit the holy sites in the kingdom sustain a public posture of respect.

Claim: "134,000 (criminal) aliens have been released by the (Obama) administration in just the past two years."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post offered a series of “fact checks” following President Trump’s primetime address from the Oval Office on border security. The president is right about the total number of arrests of immigrants with criminal records that ICE has arrested over the past two years. But that number alone is misleading, because many of those of immigrants have very likely committed immigration-related offenses rather than violent crimes as the president is suggesting. Trump has frequently pointed to sympathetic crime victims to justify his crackdown on illegal immigration.

Claim: "Says if you are shot in the city of Newark, you have over an 80 percent chance that youve been arrested before an average of 10 times."
Evidence Summary: The plan calls for providing more programs and opportunities for at-risk youth and families. It also calls for improving re-entry programs for formerly incarcerated people. "We must get away from the mindset that policing is the only answer to this problem," Mayor Kenney says. The plan will call for the implementation of "Operation Pinpoint" within the Philadelphia Police Department, which will call on police and civilian data analysts to target the most violent offenders and the areas most affected by crime. It's true firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, almost 24,000, or 60 percent, were suicides.

Claim: "When it comes to taking cuts in tough budget times, Wisconsin state workers havent had to sacrifice."
Evidence Summary: Evers says he wants to work with Republicans to build a more civil political discourse in Wisconsin. Many of his priorities run counter to what Republicans want. Republicans are already preparing to write an alternative state budget, which Evers has threatened to veto. Evers is expected to deliver his first State of the State speech later this month, then present his budget to lawmakers in late February or early March.“We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," Walker said.

Claim: "Since Newtown, more people have died at the end of a gun than we have lost in Afghanistan."
Evidence Summary: "A young man was gunned down literally feet from where my and other families were shopping," Sims wrote on Facebook. "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets and the trauma that is turning our young people into victims and perpetrators of violence," he said. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he added. "Mr. President, as you have done so many times in your two years as president, your speech further debased the dignity of the office," wrote Ken Derow.

Claim: "The Trump Winery near Charlottesville, Va. is the largest winery on the East Coast."
Evidence Summary: President Trump promoted his upcoming speech to the American Farm Bureau’s annual convention on social media Monday – but tagged the wrong city. “Getting ready to address the Farm Convention today in Nashville, Tennessee. Love our farmers, love Tennessee – a great combination! See you in a little while,” Trump said in the since-deleted tweet. The convention is actually being held in New Orleans. Robert Marcus is now chief of staff for Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.)

Claim: "Why would our president close the embassy to the Vatican? Hopefully, it is not retribution for Catholic organizations opposing Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: The president mentioned the Vatican during their meeting earlier in the week, too. A source familiar with the exchange said the president respects Pelosi and was just kidding with her to make a point. Francis' visit is taking place against the backdrop of both the turmoil in Venezuela and the ongoing migrant standoff in the U.S. The pope said he was so concerned by the situation that he had hoped to attend the US retreat in person, but added he had been unable to do so “for logistical reasons’

Claim: "With those first principles, it allowed a fellow like me to get in his truck and go from one end of the state to the other; started 20 points down and wound up 20 points ahead on election night."
Evidence Summary: "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he said. "I think the message has to be we’re a country that is good, that’s always been good,” he continued. "The issues that we face as a country today are the issues that have been in my wheelhouse, that I’ve worked on my whole life," he added. "Nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been a front-runner"

Claim: There is no evidence to support the claim that Guantanamo is used as a recruiting tool for terrorists.
Evidence Summary: Guantánamo Bay remains a “stain on the human rights record” of the US, says Amnesty International. The US naval prison in Cuba – opened on 11 January 2002 – still holds 40 Muslim men. Many of the detainees have been cleared for transfer for years. Among these is Toffiq al-Bihani, who was tortured by the CIA before he was sent to the prison in 2003. He has been clear for transfer since 2010, but is still being held there.

Claim: "When I became governor, I inherited a large deficit. You know what? We just turned that into the largest surplus in Virginia history."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. The departing governor inherited a $28 billion deficit and left Mr. newsom a $14 billion surplus. The arrival last year of Mr. Carter and 14 other newly elected Democrats made it possible for Democrats to expand Medicaid. Now the party is aiming to take control of the state legislature this coming November, a goal that once seemed out of reach. The upcoming election also sets the stage for a struggle over Virginia’s future.

Claim: My support from young voters -- those 18 to 24 -- in November 2014 was largely unheard of for a Republican.
Evidence Summary: During the 2018 midterm elections, young adults voted in higher numbers than any other midterm in the past 25 years. A preliminary analysis from the Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement (CIRCLE) estimated that 31 percent of eligible young voters ages 18 to 29 turned out to vote this year. “It feels very hopeful,” said Bautista Perez, an organizer of the Women’s March in South Carolina. ‘They understand that younger people have to work harder than their parents to achieve the same quality of life,' said Aaron Huertas.

Claim: "John McCain opposed bankruptcy protections for families ""who were only in bankruptcy because of medical expenses they couldn't pay."""
Evidence Summary: A Texas judge ruled that the Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional. Peggy Drexler says she and her family struggled to afford health care for decades. She says politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters. Drexle: The new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it's O.K. to be mad about being in debt, that this is a savage society we now live in, and that Trump and Republicans are responsible for their problems.

Claim: "Even a 100 percent tax on millionaires would only fund four months of government operations, failing to seriously address budget deficits and debt."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez recently floated the idea of a 70 percent marginal tax rate on America's highest earners. The New Yorker’s Adam Davidson argues that high taxes wouldn’t rake in that much cash, and they might even scare taxpayers out of the country. Davidson thinks a wealth tax (on the value of what you own, not what you make) is where it's really at. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few."

Claim: "The IRS filed an $11,000 lien against (Allen) West for back taxes. Three liens were placed on his home for unpaid bills, and a judge ordered West to pay over $5,000 for past due credit card bills."
Evidence Summary: The defense has said that Snyder was only trying to deal with issues related to his failing mortgage company and did not aim to obstruct the IRS. The defense noted that Snyder paid all of his personal income tax debt and is still making timely payments on what is owned by his mortgage company. Judge Joseph Van Bokkelen recessed the trial until next Tuesday, and federal prosecutors will continue presenting evidence. The trial started last week as federal prosecutors aimed to paint the mayor as someone who allegedly came up with schemes.

Claim: "If you take into account all the people who are struggling for work, or have just stopped looking, the real unemployment rate is over 15 percent."
Evidence Summary: "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofthose people agree 100 percent with what I’m doing," he says. "We can’n’T work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he adds. "While there are many historical and social reasons for people to be economically inactive, it's crucial that we tackle this issue head on," he writes. "The government really needs to get together and work this out"

Claim: "Says Scott Walker cut taxes for the wealthiest and raised taxes on 140,000 Wisconsin families."
Evidence Summary: Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker failed on both counts Tuesday when he tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize the congresswoman’s proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down. "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate.

Claim: "If you work 40 hours a week at the proposed minimum wage of $10.10 an hour, you get out of poverty."
Evidence Summary: "If you work 40 hours a week, you should not live in poverty," Sanders said. A follow-up tweet read: "A job must lift workers out of poverty, not keep them in it" "It reminds us of when we were growing up," said Ed Slattery, a retiree from Des Moines. "My daddy ended up as a janitor and I got a chance to become a public school teacher, a college professor, and a U.S. Senator," Warren told the crowd.

Claim: "In one Colorado hospital, 50 percent of newborns tested had marijuana in their system."
Evidence Summary: The driving death rate increased in Colorado and Washington after legalization. Long-term marijuana use has been associated with decreased school and job performance, memory loss, and psychiatric disorders including anxiety and depression. A report issued before Sessions’ announcement of a change in federal policy forecast that marijuana sales in California alone could total $3.7 billion in 2018 and $5.1 billion in 2019. states stand to collect billions of dollars in tax revenue from legalized marijuana sales, and much governmental money will be saved by not prosecuting sales and use.

Claim: "Republicans included the Akin amendment in the Republican Party platform, which bans abortion, even for rape victims."
Evidence Summary: On Thursday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell called a floor vote on a bill that would ban any federal funding of abortion. McConnell's bill would have made the provision permanent and government-wide. When the House was under GOP control, it passed similar measures repeatedly, but those bills have not been able to emerge from the Senate, where 60 votes are required. Despite the Republicans’ loss of the House, anti-abortion forces gained one of their most sought-after victories in decades with the confirmation of Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.

Claim: "Says that under City Council Member Randi Shade, Austin had the highest city debt per person in Texas."
Evidence Summary: Two years later, residents recall the influx of media outsiders with disdain. “They assume we’re a bunch of uneducated hillbillies, without actually learning who we are and what our community is about,” says Lindy Thompson, owner of the Sage Matt cafe. Some here, Thompson included, now refuse to discuss politics in any real depth after the onslaught of coverage. But despite their experience of receiving negative coverage, those same residents were more willing than northside residents to be engaged with news organizations.

Claim: "Because of a local version of Amendment 4, the taxpayers of St. Pete Beach have had to pay hundreds of thousands in legal bills."
Evidence Summary: Amendment 4 restores voting rights to up to 1.5 million mostly black felons, other than murderers and sexual offenders, who have served their sentences. The effort to change the law was led by Desmond Meade, who couldn’t vote in Florida until Tuesday because of a felony conviction. The group is encouraging former felons who believe they can now legally vote to register on Tuesday to raise awareness about the change in policy. The new governor is already proving a racial hot potato to the incoming governor.

Claim: "Doctors, nurses, hospitals, even the pharmaceutical industry, (and) AARP say that health reform makes sense to do."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. The health care industry heavily markets its own importance and pushes treating illness over preventing it with lifestyle modification. Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act. They complained about the law nonstop that entire time, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans.

Claim: I had five of my citizens that were killed last week because of border security problems.
Evidence Summary: The life of an American hero was stolen by someone who had no right to be in our country. In California, an Air Force veteran was raped, murdered, and beaten to death with a hammer. In Georgia, an illegal alien was recently charged with murder for killing, beheading, and dismembering his neighbor. In Maryland, MS-13 gang members who arrived in the United States as unaccompanied minors were arrested and charged last year after viciously stabbing and beating a 16-year-old girl.

Claim: "Scary fact about our national debt. In 1791 it was $75 million. Today, it rises by that amount in about an hour."
Evidence Summary: David Frum: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. He says the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. Frum says candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt. To win the anxious middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions, he says, especially on health care and education.“And the ironic thing is 30 years ago when I worked in New York covering finance, And he was exactly the same.”

Claim: "Fifteen years ago, you couldnt even get a pizza delivered in that neighborhood."
Evidence Summary: "Look at how it’s run down,” she said, gesturing to a street dotted with bookmakers, charity shops and empty shopfronts. "I don't know that you need to go as far to the middle as some people in the past have," she said. "It's not the '90s anymore. We’re worse now than in the war," she added. “Wow, I wonder what happened? This was such a nice place to grow up.”

Claim: "Romneycare is a top-down, government-run health care system."
Evidence Summary: Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act. They complained about the law nonstop that entire time, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began, writes Julian Zelizer. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs.

Claim: "Over 214,000 doctors opt out of Obamacare exchanges."
Evidence Summary: Researchers sketched a vivid line Friday linking the dollars spent by drugmakers to a vast opioid epidemic. For each three additional payments made to physicians per 100,000 people in a county, opioid overdose deaths were up 18 percent. High premiums for people who earn too much to qualify for federal tax credits to subsidize their costs have been a problem on the health insurance exchanges. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014.

Claim: "We had bipartisan legislation that got through the Senate that would have prevented bonuses like AIG's ""and then somehow mysteriously disappeared."""
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez had voted with Khanna to oppose the so-called "pay-go" rule included in the rules package. That rule requires that any new mandatory spending for entitlements or tax cuts be offset by other separate revenue increases (such as tax hikes) or budget-cutting measures. The last-minute revolt against pay-go, however small, reflects a tidal shift in Democratic thinking about fiscal policy since the party last controlled the House. Also shot down was Justice Democrats' bid to have Tlaib placed on the Appropriations Committee, which announced a list of new members on Thursday.

Claim: "Barack (Obama) has one of his biggest supporters in terms of funding, the Exelon Corporation, which has spent millions of dollars trying to make Yucca Mountain the waste depository."
Evidence Summary: Nevada City in the Sierra Nevada began an online crowdsourcing campaign last month with the goal of raising $30,000 for the project. In an interview with HuffPost, Inslee, 67, said he added his name to the list of more than 1,300 politicians across the United States who took the No Fossil Fuel Money Pledge. The vow commits candidates to “adopt a policy to not knowingly accept any contributions over $200 from the PACs, executives, or front groups of fossil fuel companies”

Claim: "Charlie Crist ""bizarrely vetoed"" $9.7 million for a teaching hospital at the University of Florida ""despite having previously argued the budget request had merit."""
Evidence Summary: President Trump has refused to sign spending bills for nine of the 15 Cabinet-level departments until Congress approves his request for $5.7 billion to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Law allows the Defense secretary to halt funding for “Army civil works that he deems not essential to the national defense” during a national emergency. But DeFazio argued that the Corps’ budget does not have any fat, pointing out that the agency already faces a $40 billion backlog.

Claim: "Obama creates new tax on Christmas trees, fees get passed on to consumers."
Evidence Summary: Carbon tax is a levy on the use of oil, natural gas and coal. Hydrocarbons provide 80% of America’s energy, more for the rest of the world. Plan would put a fee on carbon dioxide emissions and return the proceeds to individuals and families on a quarterly basis. Plan claims, "Over two-thirds of American households would be financial winners under a carbon dividends program, including the most vulnerable" The aim is to increase the cost and disincentivize use of products that generate carbon pollution.

Claim: That 59 divisions in Philly had no votes for Romney in 2012 is (a) mathematical and statistical impossibility.
Evidence Summary: In 2016 the suburbs, home to the majority of American voters, voted 50 to 45 for Donald Trump; this year, 52 percent went Democratic. The suburbs are where most Americans, including roughly four in five residents of our largest metropolitan areas, live. Historically, they have favored Republicans in most elections. But that tie has been weakened for reasons including the growing diversity of these areas and revulsion at Trump, particularly among educated women. These figures represent the margin by which President Trump would beat Mitt Romney in a four-way 2020 Republican Primary if it were held today, according to a December McLaughlin & Associates survey.

Claim: 2008: Unions Spent $400 Million to Elect Obama.
Evidence Summary: Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker recently gave $20,000 to the fund for Chicago Heights Mayor David Gonzalez. The donations boosted the mayor’s war chest balance to a robust $307,039. Obama's campaign paid $230,000, with the Democratic National Committee paying the rest of the amount. The unprecedented experiment helped send stocks soaring, but also contributed to wealth inequality and populism. The S&P 500 nearly tripled during the Obama era, but the wealth gap has widened.

Claim: "Israel in the last three weeks haskilled more Palestinian children, more than 200, than the total number of Israeli soldiers killed in military operations since 2006."
Evidence Summary: "It shows the (Palestinian Authority) is only powerful when it comes to confronting its own people," he says. "I agree with the Rev. William J. Barber II, that the Palestinian child is as precious as the Jewish child" "It would appear, sadly, that Israel wishes to conduct a war over the airwaves, as well as one on the ground," he adds. "This blatant disregard for Gazan lives and the lack of accountability is underpinned by a politics of resentment and dissembling"

Claim: "Terrorist detainees were not covered by the Geneva Convention. They were unlawful combatants. And under those circumstances, they were not entitled to the normal kinds of courtesies and treatment."
Evidence Summary: The Kurdistan regional government, which has promised in the past to investigate claims of mistreatment, denied the allegations of torture. The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention said three people were being held because of their kinship to Sayed Ahmed Alwadaei, a human rights activist and government critic. The panel, composed of five independent experts, also found that there were grave “violations of their right to a fair trial and due process” It voiced concern at allegations of tortured and mistreatment in custody.

Claim: "Says Patrick Murphy supports a gun ban on commonly owned semi-automatic firearms used for hunting, recreational shooting and self defense."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Brown introduced the same legislation last year, but it failed to pass in the Republican-controlled House. Now with the Democrats in control – and with some bipartisan support – Brown is hopeful the legislation will pass the chamber. So far, three Republicans have offered their support to Brown’s bill: Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, Brian Mast of Florida and Peter King of New York. The background checks measure is likely to face opposition from the GOP-controlled Senate and the White House, where President Donald Trump has promised to "protect the Second Amendment"

Claim: "There are many studies that indicate that the longer people get unemployment insurance, it provides some disincentive to work."
Evidence Summary: "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I’m doing" "Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. I'm just hoping this government opens up" "I think we have to examine it more closely." "I'm sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments" "It's crucial that we tackle this issue head on"

Claim: "Says Mary Burkes 2007-09 state budget had a tax hike of $1.8 billion -- costing every man, woman and child in the state an extra $310."
Evidence Summary: State fiscal analysts project tax revenues will grow by about 2.5 percent each year for the new two-year budget starting in July. But a big increase in funding for the embattled Indiana Department of Child Services and a jump in Medicaid expenses are projected to consume nearly the entire increase. Republicans want to protect the state's $1.8 billion budget surplus, which Democrats suggest should be tapped to make money available for teacher pay. The revenue forecast puts plans for an appreciable teacher pay raise in jeopardy.

Claim: "Under current law, if you go on a dating website and you say youre 32 and youre actually 42, youve committed a misdemeanor."
Evidence Summary: In nearly all the cases, the girls were the younger person in the relationship, the Senate Homeland Security Committee found. In 149 instances, the adult was older than 40, and in 28 cases theAdult was over 50. In 2011, immigration officials approved a 14-year-old’s petition for a 48- year-old spouse in Jamaica. In 2013, a petition was approved in 2013 for a 17-year old wife in Guatemala. It indicates a loophole that we need to close," Republican Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, the chairman of the Senate Security Committee, told the AP.

Claim: "There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s."
Evidence Summary: Greg Jaczko served as chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission under Obama. He soon grew disillusioned with nuclear energy technology itself. Lonnie Rouse knew the job he was signing up for at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation was dangerous. But the good pay, he thought, made it worth the risk. “Most of the people I worked with out there, when I first started, they’re already dead,” said Rouse. "One bad accident would be enough to wipe Scotland out"

Claim: "Obama spent ""40 percent of the PAC money, 43 percent to be exact, on Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina politicians."""
Evidence Summary: The Democratic National Committee is planning to include some kind of small-money metric in its debate qualifications. Iowa Democrats are racing to implement some of the most significant changes in the history of the first-in-the-nation event. Some Democrats are perturbed by Beto O'Rourke's individualistic style and his merely lukewarm embrace of fellow Texas Democrat Gina-Jones Ortiz Ortiz-Rourke. Jeff Merkley said he would decide on a presidential run before the end of April.

Claim: "For the first time in history, my administration posts our White House visitors online."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump will travel to the U.S.-Mexico border on Thursday. The visit comes amid a partial government shutdown over his insistence on building a wall there. Trump and the first lady made a secret visit to U.s. troops in Iraq last week. NPR's Tamara Keith was one of the reporters who kept the trip secret from everyone but her husband and editor. The White House released a transcript of the president's speech on Monday. The full text of the speech can be read here.

Claim: "In the fall of 2009, only 21 percent of Texas high school graduates enrolled in a four-year public university."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education. The 4 out of 10 students who start college and don’t finish in at least six years—some never. Education is supposed to be a ladder to prosperity, but in the decades-long push to open college doors wide, an unintended casualty has been the college dropout. Just 22 percent of the high school graduates who enrolled in Tennessee Promise in 2015 had graduated two years later. Nearly half – 48 percent – had dropped out.

Claim: "For more than 30 years after World War II, there was a steady reduction in U.S. debt as a percentage of gross domestic product."
Evidence Summary: David Frum: The obsession with debt is looking foolish even at full employment. He says the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. Frum says Blanchard was cautious in his pronouncements, and certainly didn’t go all MMT and say that debt never matters. But his analysis nonetheless makes the Fix the Debt fixation look even worse than before, he says.ium: The nation has become accustomed to daily mortifications. Or has lost its capacity for embarrassment, which is worse.

Claim: "While I was working on those streets watching those folks see their jobs shift overseas, you were a corporate lawyer sitting on the board at Wal-Mart."
Evidence Summary: "I'm still fighting for this business and I will do that to the very end until there's no breath left in me," he says. "I get where they’re coming from. But my role in government is to manage a lot of competing interests," he adds. "The government really needs to get together and work this out," he concludes. "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I’m doing."

Claim: The United States sends $300 billion -- half our trade deficit -- overseas for oil to unstable and unfriendly regimes.
Evidence Summary: Brent crude oil, used to price international purchases, briefly rose above $85 a barrel in October but has since plummeted to less than $55. Iraq derives 95 percent of its revenue from oil exports. The U.S. share of its exports has declined in recent years with more shipments going to Russia and China. America's nearly one and a half billion dollars a year is going to a regime accused of the worst abuses in Egypt's modern history. The United States has become a major player in foreign energy markets long dominated by our adversaries, undercutting their position.

Claim: "Since President Obama took office, gas prices have gone up 67 percent."
Evidence Summary: The Dow hit 124 all-time highs in Obama’s second term; he just didn’t make a big deal about its awesomeness. Trump's claim of positive pocketbook news for Americans appeared to be offered, at least in part, as an antidote to a sour 2018 on Wall Street. The outlook was much better for consumers at the fuel pump, where gas dipped to less than $2 in some locations, energy analysts said in November. Trump promised to promote fossil fuels, and last year the U.S. became the world's largest oil producer.

Claim: "Before Act 10, the total cost of public sector employees employment was 29 percent higher than that in the private sector. After the act, its still 22 percent higher."
Evidence Summary: The government aims to cut the public sector wage bill to 12.5 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2020. The lifetime value of outsourcing contracts awarded in 2017-18 “rocketed” by 53% from £62bn to £95bn in the past year. Trade unions have accused the government of failing to learn lessons from the collapse of Carillion, a year on from the firm’s high-profile demise. The GMB said this showed a government “hell-bent” on privatisation, despite the warning signs given by the collapse.

Claim: "When President Franklin D. Roosevelt started Social Security, it only affected widows and orphans, and when Medicare began, it was a small program."
Evidence Summary: It called for universal health insurance; a national public health service; insurance for the elderly, the unemployed and the disabled. It has long been the dream of movement conservatives to bring to the knees a federal government that grew dramatically in scope under the New Deal. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence.

Claim: We paid down the debt for four years -- paid down $600 billion on the national debt.
Evidence Summary: The federal government has a lot of debt right now. It's about twice as much, relative to GDP, as there was before the last recession. Entitlements will only get more expensive, especially as baby boomers get older and go on Medicare. The 2017 tax cuts are also projected to add significantly to the debt. The U.S. national debt is now $2 trillion more than it was when President Trump took office. The federal government should take out debt for productive reasons, but there's a problem with that now.

Claim: "As part of legislative fights over abortion rights,Mike Coffman co-sponsored a bill to redefine rape."
Evidence Summary: Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton joined New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo on Monday in calling for codifying abortion rights in New York state law. Efforts to put federal legal protections of abortion rights into New York law were blocked for years by state Senate Republicans. With Democrats now in control of the Senate by a wide margin, codifying Roe v. Wade in state law is expected to occur during the legislative session that starts Wednesday. In an odd twist, the abortion language in the Mexico City Policy bill passed by the House this month was taken directly from a version approved last June.

Claim: "An Army report stated Allen West performed illegal acts, merited court martial, faced 11 years in prison."
Evidence Summary: Marine reservist was discharged in 2008 for bad conduct. He was convicted of larceny in a special court-martial in January 2008. The Navy’s bread-and-water punishment for the most junior enlisted sailors has been eliminated in a new revision to the Uniform Code of Military Justice. John Sifton of Human Rights Watch researched war crimes in Iraq and Afghanistan. He points to the Haditha massacre in Iraq in 2005 as an example of a war crime.

Claim: "Says each year approximately 30,000 people in the United States die as a result of gunfire, and about 80,000 people are wounded."
Evidence Summary: Nearly 40,000 Americans were killed with firearms in 2017, the majority of them gun suicides. Two of the five worst mass shootings in recent U.S. history occurred in 2017. The United States leads the world in gun-related homicides at a rate four to 16 times higher than any other advanced nation. Without research, we’re going blind into a “deadly future,” cautions Mark Rosenberg, who worked at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for 20 years.

Claim: "In this city, there hasnt been a stadium thats lasted more than 27 years."
Evidence Summary: Residents of Lincoln Park and Bucktown wanted neither. If built, the stadium and entertainment venues would have choked already saturated streets with more traffic. The entertainment district would have endangered the viability of iconic music club mainstays like Schubas and the Hideout. Residents also wanted more open space, and the developer gave in, proposing an 11.2-acre park where the stadium would have gone. But North Siders remain wary of the scale envisioned for Lincoln Yards’ towers, with heights as tall as 50 stories.

Claim: "When he served as governor, Schwarzenegger preserved more land than any other gubernatorial administration in Californias history."
Evidence Summary: Jerry Brown served as California’s 34th governor and its 39th. He is using his remaining days to offer warnings about the future of California and the planet. He arrived eight years ago to a $26 billion deficit, and is leaving a $14 billion surplus. Gavin Newsom, the Democratic lieutenant governor, is moving into the governor's office in the Capitol next week, and Mr. Brown is riding a wave of attention that will disappear as surely as his state trooper escort.

Claim: "More people are driving under the influence of drugs than are driving under the influence of alcohol. A recent roadside survey showed that 16 percent of the people tested, tested positive for illicit or licit drugs. Thats significantly higher than alcohol."
Evidence Summary: Marijuana weakens a driver’s ability to maintain focus, and it slows reflexes. A recent study from the Columbia University School of Public Health found that while alcohol increased the risk of causing a fatal car crash five times, testing positive for pot increased it by 62 percent. States have put forth a bevy of approaches. At least five have a “per se’ law, which outlaws driving if someone's blood level of tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, exceeds a set amount.

Claim: "Says Florida U.S. Reps. Corrine Brown, Alcee Hastings and Frederica Wilson are Socialists."
Evidence Summary: The term “Democratic Socialist’ was only broadly popularized with the 2016 presidential run of Bernie Sanders. Now, two more Democratic Socialists will join Sanders in Congress on Thursday -- Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Rashida Tlaib. Their growing support marks an astonishing rise for socialist-leaning policies in just a few years, and reflects a shift in the party itself. A stunning Gallup poll last summer showed Democrats view socialism more positively than capitalism.. The frequently-wrong but never-in-doubt freshman Congresswoman Alexandria O cortez, D-N.Y., may indeed be the voice of her ignorant generation. In fact, her economic proposals bear little resemblance to British and Nordic public policy.

Claim: "Obama says McCain went to Bermuda and ""pledged to protect tax breaks for American corporations that hide their profits offshore."""
Evidence Summary: Joaquin Castro, a Democrat, is the brother of Julián Castro, who recently announced his run for the White House in 2020. "Obtaining the president's tax returns is not some fishing expedition," said Frank Clemente, executive director of Americans for Tax Fairness. Trump reportedly pursued the controversial project in the middle of his 2016 presidential campaign, the culmination of a decades-long dream of building a tower in Russia. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment by NBC News.

Claim: "The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year."
Evidence Summary: The proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. The proposal would cost about $100 million a year and expand upon the city's already existing public-option plan. The move also comes as some state lawmakers are pushing the entire state to adopt universal health care, saying it is the most cost effective way to ensure health coverage for residents. It would double the state's roughly $170 billion budget and require new taxes.

Claim: The Constitution simply does not authorize the federal government to own any of this land (in the Western states).
Evidence Summary: Wyoming argues that the treaty only meant to afford "temporary" rights to hunt off the reservation. The state also argues that President Grover Cleveland's designation of the land as a national forest in 1897 effectively rendered it "occupied" Twenty-five years ago, in a similar case involving the Crow Tribe, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals concluded, “The Tribe and its members are subject to the game laws of Wyoming" The vast majority of the property in Texas on which he wants to build a wall is private.

Claim: "Says $800,000 cost of Texas special legislative session would pay for 1.6 million condoms, 90,000 months of the pill or 20 full-time sexual health educators."
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration is also cutting short evidence-based grants for teen pregnancy prevention programs, favoring curriculum focused on abstinence. A 2007 evaluation of four federal abstinence programs found that they had no impact on sexual activity or rates of unprotected sex among teens. The Texas Legislature is only at work for five months every two years, but reliably packs drama and spectacle into such a short amount of time. Some Republicans lawmakers had signaled to audiences of Texas conservative activists that they would continue pushing bills on social issues, which would likely rekindle opposition with gay rights groups and big businesses.

Claim: "(Deborah) Ross defends those who want to burn the American flag, and even called efforts to ban flag-burning ridiculous, yet refused to help a disabled veteran fly the flag."
Evidence Summary: Virginia Democratic freshman Jennifer Wexton removed the POW/MIA flag in front of her office, even though almost 60,000 civilian veterans – not counting members of the military on active duty live in her district. The FFRF said Camden County’s September 11th memorial violates the Establishment Clause of the Constitution. The ridiculousness of these actions is only matched by the extreme policies the out-of-touch House Democrats are trying to sell us. Go ahead congresswoman, be #unapologeticallyYou – but this time do it on the House floor.

Claim: "[E]mployment in Gwinnett is up more than 3 percent over last year, and unemployment is the lowest of the five core metro counties."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. There are now 6.9 million unfilled jobs in the country, surpassing the number of people unemployed last year for the first time in history. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The labor market gains have been widespread, with unemployment rates for black, Hispanic, and female jobseekers reaching record lows.

Claim: "In the history of Republican primaries, Ive gotten the most votes in the history of the Republican party."
Evidence Summary: "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner," Hillary Clinton says. "I am proud to be here to announce that I will do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes" to remove a president. "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before," she adds. "Even if I have to spend the rest of my life convincing the administration, or whoever comes next."

Claim: "The Massachusetts Supreme Court...defined marriage as simply, quote,the establishment of intimacy ... I guess that would mean if you really had affection for your horse, I guess you could marry your horse."
Evidence Summary: Homosexual acts, he writes, “cannot really actualize the mutual devotion which some homosexual persons hope to manifest and experience by [them]” His only defence to the charge of homophobia is that he makes it clear that these strictures apply to everything but vanilla sex within the context of marriage. Late in his life, Wofford, whose wife Clare died in 1996, married Matthew Charlton, a man 50 years younger whom he met some years earlier on a beach in Florida.

Claim: "The federal health care plan ""costs Texas taxpayers $2.4 billion per year."""
Evidence Summary: Medicare-for-all would double the size of federal government spending. Even a doubling of corporate and individual income taxes would fail to cover its costs. Illegal immigration costs taxpayers a staggering $134.9 billion a year while contributing only $19 billion in state, federal, and local taxes. Medical costs make up the lion’s share of government expenditures on illegal immigrants, while education is the largest single expense that illegal immigration imposes on state and local governments. The proposal, he said, would cost about $100 million a year and expand upon the city's already existing public-option plan.

Claim: "When the New Hampshire Legislature raised the gasoline tax, gas prices in the state were skyrocketing."
Evidence Summary: The decision to dramatically increase the price of fuel is designed to choke off demand and curtail black market dealings. But the result has been widespread protest and demands for the decision to be reversed. And across the country, businesses - already struggling to survive in desperate economic times - are facing a huge increase in their operating costs. "Just when gas prices are finally falling, and little more than a year after income taxes were hiked 32 percent, greedy politicians seem all too willing to take more of our hard-earned money. It’s just plain wrong," said Illinois Conservative United board member Jane Carrell.

Claim: "We will spend $100 billion in Afghanistan this year, fixing roads, building bridges, training police officers, and more, [and] cutting the same things in our own country."
Evidence Summary: The war in Afghanistan has lasted more than 18 years, and the overall situation has improved little over those years. The United States has spent more than $130 billion in aid to Afghanistan, including $80 billion to train and equip its security forces. Afghan government forces control barely half the country, with the Taliban insurgents currently controlling or contesting more territory than at any time since 2001. A recent survey found that 57 percent of Americans, including 69 percent of military veterans, said they would support a decision by the president to remove all troops from Afghanistan.

Claim: Says Mitt Romney did not pay taxes for 10 years.
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has been criticized by President-elect Donald Trump for not releasing his tax returns. Trump called Romney "one of the dumbest and worst candidates in the history of Republican politics" in February 2016. Romney got a shoutout from departing Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz) and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) on Wednesday. Trump fired back in a tweet on Wednesday taking aim at Romney’s failed 2012 White House bid. “Here we go with Mitt Romney, but so fast! Question will be, is he a Flake? Would much prefer that Mitt focus on Border Security," he wrote.

Claim: "A ""massive"" federal computer network will make your medical records available to ""millions of people"" with a ""complete lack of privacy and confidentiality,"" while doctors and hospitals who don't take part face ""stiff penalties."""
Evidence Summary: In April last year Milton Keynes became the first hospital to let patients book their own outpatient appointments online. Harrison is looking at expanding this from cardiology into other clinical areas, including diabetes. He sees that facility as potentially only the start of a process of patient empowerment. But, given the NHS’s failure to introduce electronic records before, let alone any agreement over the many security and governance issues sharing such sensitive information entails, Harrison comes across as over-optimistic and overambitious. In the wake of Facebook'sCamtica scandal, which resulted in a maximum £500,000 fine for Facebook, how big companies use and abuse our data has been under greater scrutiny.

Claim: The five economic indicators that the federal government tracks - for the first time since August 2006 - were positive this October.
Evidence Summary: The economy is thought to have grown close to 3 percent last year, its best performance in more than a decade. The unemployment rate is 3.7 percent, a 49-year low. Consumers, the main driver of the economy, are spending freely. The Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate four times in 2018 but is only expected to raise it twice this year.. Voters feel better about the economy than they did two years ago. Forty-one percent of voters rate the economy positively (excellent or good)

Claim: "In slashing $1.7 billion from Social Security, Rep. Jim Renacci may end up forcing the entire agency to ... shut down for a month, causing seniors to not get their benefits on time, halting claims processing, and forcing new retirees and disabled workers into a backlog."
Evidence Summary: Rightwing, anti-government forces which first took root in the GOP more than 40 years ago are now in full bloom and Trump is their willing avatar. Republican party leaders have long talked about slashing the size of government, reducing the social safety net, and privatizing whatever they can. Without action from Congress, seniors and individuals with disabilities will take a hit. Congress, do not let us down. Allowing President Donald Trump to destroy our federal government this way over a failed 2016 campaign promise is un-American. Don't allow Trump to get away with this or he will just do it again.

Claim: "Says Sen. Bill Nelson voted to spend $144,541 to see how monkeys react under the influence of cocaine."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Kamala Harris raised $1.5 million from 38,000 donors online in the 24 hours after announcing her presidential run Monday morning. President Donald Trump’s demand that Congress fork over $5.7 billion for a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border has left some 800,000 federal workers without pay. The Senate is set to vote Thursday on a pair of measures aimed at reopening the government, but neither is expected to pass. The impact on science is a slow strangling of the American scientific enterprise.

Claim: Says(President) Reagans second inaugural was moved inside the Capitol. It was. Because of a terrible snowstorm.
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump is moving forward with plans to deliver a State of the Union address from the Capitol Jan. 29. White House official: "She invited, we accepted," referring to Pelosi's initial invitation and ignoring a letter the House speaker sent last week suggesting that Trump postpone his remarks. Pelosi: "Sadly, given the security concerns and unless government re-opens this week, I suggest that we work together to determine another suitable date" White House speechwriters are also working on "separate passages" that could lend themselves to a speech at a different venue and for a different audience.

Claim: "Says a poll shows that without a name attached, Democrats are just one point behind Gov. John Kasich."
Evidence Summary: Daily Kos, the progressive blog that's long been a fixture on the left, is out with its first presidential straw poll of the 2020 cycle. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren is the clear leader, with 22 percent, with former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke, California Sen. Kamala Harris, former Vice President Joe Biden and Vermont Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders bunched up behind her. The progressive organization says it'll repeat the straw poll every two weeks, switching out the names of the bottom-two finishers.

Claim: On repealing the 17th Amendment
Evidence Summary: Missouri voters gave much of the power to draw state House and Senate districts to a demographer. The criteria in the amendment are aimed at giving political parties a better chance at winning in places where they usually get swamped. But fans of the measure barely had a chance to exhale before the GOP majority began to talk about repealing it. That’s not the fault of the Second Amendment, or those who believe in it. We need to more strictly enforce the laws that exist.

Claim: "Says Bruce Starr voted to throw 6,000 Oregonians off unemployment."
Evidence Summary: Companies in bankruptcy can alter labor agreements, raising the prospect that workers’ pensions could be on the table. Jay Inslee of Washington lashed out at President Donald Trump for blocking states from dipping into unemployment benefits to pay federal employees in the second month of the partial government shutdown. California Gov. Newsom said the letter from the U.S. Labor Department was “in essence telling us that we can’t do what we’re doing.” “And shame on them,” Newsom continued.

Claim: "Says while serving in the city council, Rachel Zenzinger voted to use tax dollars to take a taxpayer-funded junket to China."
Evidence Summary: California taxpayers should be repulsed by the notion that their hard-earned money is being used to prop up anti-police bigots like the Ethnic and Cultural Affairs Commission. The university’s social media pages have been inundated with messages of outrage from citizens and law enforcement officers from around the nation. “Sad state of affairs when you condemn a police officer who died in the line of duty protecting YOUR community. Her only crime was being a police Officer,” Gofman wrote on his Facebook page.

Claim: "The governor is trying to take credit for recent actions taken by these companies. The problem is that for all three companies, the decision to move or stay in New Jersey happened before Chris Christie became governor."
Evidence Summary: Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie was booted from his job as Donald Trump’s transition team chairman in November 2016. Now, Christie has revealed that he blames Jared Kushner for his ousting, alleging that Kushner held a grudge from when Christie prosecuted his father, Charles Kushner, a decade earlier. In his upcoming book, Let Me Finish, Christie blasts Kushner, saying that Steve Bannon, the then campaign chief, confirmed that Kushner was behind his dismissal. Christie writes that he agrees – a rare occurrence – with Bannon, who has called the firing, which led to the appointment of special counsel Robert Mueller, the worst mistake in modern political history.

Claim: "Says more than 1 million Texans are jobless, the state has its highest unemployment rate in more than 20 years and joblessness doubled on Rick Perrys watch."
Evidence Summary: At the midpoint of the Trump presidency, the Texas panhandle goes some way to show the extent of unwavering loyalty that remains among his base. Roberts county, in the heart of America’s Bible belt, has voted Republican with giant margins for decades. No Democrat since Harry Truman in 1948 has even come close to taking this area, which swung red years before the racist politics of the Southern Strategy secured Republican control of America's south. No matter how spectacularly or repeatedly the data proves the pessimists wrong – and missing the mark by 113,000 is pretty spectacular – the anti-Trump economic “experts” continue to warn that a recession is just around the corner.

Claim: "He has asked for $932-million of earmark pork-barrel spending, nearly a million dollars for every day that hes been in the United States Senate."
Evidence Summary: He's said, many times, doesn't have to be $5.7 billion. But the Democrats have said, "No." The only thing they're willing to consider is zero. He's now demanding the money from Congress. He also lashed the Democrats for their refusal to allocate $5,7 billion for his wall. He insisted, without evidence, that the amount is “way less than other other presidents” have requested. He said: "I have the biggest anti-corruption proposals since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington?"

Claim: "Canada ""does spills into their water to practice in the event that this would happen. That is not allowed in the United States."""
Evidence Summary: Three teenagers were walking out onto the pier when one slipped and fell in. Rescuers searched for the second 16-year-old, who had jumped in to help his friend, but they were unsuccessful as darkness and weather made operations dangerous. It is against Canadian law to interfere with marine mammals such as seals. The creatures became stranded after nearby waters suddenly froze over last week, preventing their return to the ocean. Experts say the speed at which the bay froze over may have disorientated the animals and caused them to move inland.

Claim: "Lots of studies seem to indicate that minors find it very easy to get marijuana, easier than to get alcohol."
Evidence Summary: Marijuana legalization is a way to mobilize young and minority voters. Legal marijuana (both medical and recreational) is turning into a multibillion-dollar industry. Sales were expected to hit $10 billion nationwide in 2017 and grow with the legalization of marijuana in California at the start of this year. For all their charges that Republicans are in the pocket of “Big Pharma,” marijuana will endear many cannabis workers, investors and users of the drug to the Democratic Party and its candidates.

Claim: "The geography of poverty has changed fundamentally in the last 15 years, with more of it concentrated in fragile and conflict states."
Evidence Summary: The World Inequality Report 2018 – co-authored by Piketty – showed that between 1980 and 2016 the poorest 50% of humanity only captured 12 cents in every dollar of global income growth. By contrast, the top 1% captured 27 cents of every dollar. Oxfam said that in addition to tackling inequality at home, developed nations currently failing to meet their overseas aid commitments could raise the missing billions needed to tackle extreme poverty in the poorest countries. China’s rapid growth over the past four decades has been responsible for much of the decline in extreme poverty. But World Bank data showed the rate of poverty reduction had halved since 2013.

Claim: "Russia has tremendous numbers of nuclear warheads 1,800, by the way where they expanded, and we didnt."
Evidence Summary: Russia has itself been accused of flirting with a new nuclear arms race. In March last year, Putin announced that work was underway on an array of new Russian weapons. The new weapons included a hyper-sonic, nuclear-capable missile called Avangard. Putin oversaw what the Kremlin said was a pre-deployment test of the new missile in December last year and afterwards he declared it a complete success. The U.S. has given Russia until early February to comply with the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.

Claim: "For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy."
Evidence Summary: The "human economy" would provide health care, education and gender equality to people across the globe. Raising taxes on the world's richest people and corporations would help fund those programs. Oxfam calculating that boosting taxes on. the richest by 0.5 percent would raise enough money to educate 262 million children who currently don't. receive an education and provide healthcare that would save 3.3 million people from preventable deaths. The other major misconception, Kifowit said, has to do with the dispersion of funds.

Claim: "In writing his book, Gov. Perry pointed out that by any measure Social Security has been a failure."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump attributes his petulant shutdown to Democrats’ failure to fund his mythical wall. But its core is the GOP’s cynical war on government itself. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence, with healthcare, a pension and paid time off. For four decades, Republicans have cast the federal government as a sclerotic beast manned by incompetent meddlers.

Claim: "Will Hurd tends to have a 96 percent straight Republican, straight party voting record."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Will Hurd, R-Texas, is running against Democrat Beto O'Rourke. Hurd: "I’ve learned way more unites us as a country than divides us" Hurd says he thinks O’Rourke will have a "difficult time" running for president in 2020. The House Republican Conference took quick, decisive and necessary action to repudiate the comments, says Hurd. The U.S. is in the midst of a uniquely fractured time in our nation’s history, he says.

Claim: "One of the things I would immediately do is bring back the warrior class -- Petraeus, McChrystal, Mattis, Keane, Flynn. ... Every one was retired early because they told President Obama things that he didnt want to hear."
Evidence Summary: For years we've had leaders who promised to end America's costly wars, only to cave in to the establishment view. I've seen young leaders with no military background get into office and be completely rolled by impressive-looking generals with gravelly voices and gold braid all over their chests.”Exactly, Rachel! So, why on earth are you now lamenting the departure of James Mattis? You should be cheering it as a victory for democratic, civilian control of the military and the kind of foreign policy you actually support.

Claim: "Says under his budget-repair bill, collective bargaining is fully intact."
Evidence Summary: President Trump says deal he's announcing will fund government for three weeks. He says he has "tremendous" and "unwavering" GOP support. But union officials say their members have expressed deep concern about the shutdown. The House and Senate overwhelmingly passed a bill on Friday to ensure all government workers receive retroactive pay after the shutdown ends. The president is expected to sign the legislation, but that may be small consolation to those federal employees currently in dire straits, with no end in sight.

Claim: "Since I took office, over 319,000 new private sector jobs have been created in Georgia with nearly 93,000 of those coming in the past 12 months."
Evidence Summary: Over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. Even wages are starting to increase with a 3.2 increase in (hourly) wages. But even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’

Claim: "Today in Selma, Ala., the poverty rate is roughly nine times that of whites."
Evidence Summary: Carlson is still envisioning a clear racial hierarchy. He still trusts in some version of capitalism to deliver that. Even more surprising is Carlson’s implicit retrospective rejection of how conservatives have denounced inner-city black communities’ perceived social “dysfunction” for the past 40 years. In an interview with Vox reporter Jane Coaston, he posits that when diagnosing black urban poverty, it was all too easy for Americans to explain away the experience of a small minority group. Now, public budget cuts and unfettered capitalism have begun to afflict white families.

Claim: "First, he said he would leave residual forces in Iraq, and now he says he wouldn't."
Evidence Summary: "A lot of people are looking to get their paycheck. So I'm ready to go any time they want," Trump said. He also addressed his foreign policy, specifically Syria, where he announced earlier this month troops will be leaving soon. On withdrawing troops from Syria, the president said, "Not only am I able to get out, but I've also won. You look at what I've done. That doesn't mean we don't totally finish the job. That's going to be a short period of time"

Claim: "President Obama's own director of national intelligence, Admiral Blair, put it this way: 'High-value information came from interrogations in which those methods were used and provided a deeper understanding of the al-Qaida organization that was attacking this country.'"
Evidence Summary: U.S. Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats introduced the strategy in a speech to his workforce on Tuesday. He pledged that spy agencies will continue “seeking the truth and when we find the truth, speaking the truth” The new strategy is broadly similar to the last iteration, published in 2014, that also focused on the threats from adversarial nation-states, extremist and transnational criminal organizations, and the unpredictable effects of the diffusion of technology. But this year’s report does place particular emphasis on transparency.

Claim: "When he (Donald Trump) asked Florida to have casino gambling, we said no."
Evidence Summary: Trump backs away from the idea of declaring a national emergency as an escape hatch. Florida’s new Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, is making a mark quickly in his first few days in office. “You and I should put all this behind us, governor,” Trump said as soon as he sat down with Florida Gov. Rick Scott. "I want to get it solved. I don't want to just delay it," Trump said of student loan debt and health care.

Claim: "When Sen. Edwards ran in 2004, he wasn't for universal health care. I'm glad he is now."
Evidence Summary: Before CHIP was enacted, the number of uninsured children in America was around 10 million. “This is an area the country has made enormous progress on, and it’s something we should all feel proud of — and Senator Hatch should too,” said Joan Alker. Democrats have at least eight substantive proposals for achieving universal coverage. Now is the perfect time to expose them to the public, debate the merits, and engage experts to improve on these proposals or introduce new ones.

Claim: Says Texas has the most uninsured people of any state -- 6 million.
Evidence Summary: The uninsured rate among U.S. adults has reached its highest level in roughly four years, Gallup reported on Wednesday. The pollster found that 13.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. The uninsured rates in all three states are below the national average of 10 percent as of 2017, the most recent year for which Census data on the uninsured at the state level are available.

Claim: "Says EPA regulation of greenhouse gases will endanger 575 Texas dairy facilities, 58 swine operations, 1,300 corn farms and 28,000 beef cattle operations."
Evidence Summary: Methane is an extremely powerful and swift contributor to global warming. Rather than move the country onto a path toward climate safety, Mr. Trump and Mr. Wheeler are leading us — and the world — closer to mutually assured destruction. Mr Wheeler is more media savvy than Mr. Pruitt ever was, and that makes him more dangerous. His nomination to run the E.P.A. is among the most consequential and cynical of all the cabinet appointments that Mr. Donald Trump has proposed. The International Franchise Association has hired Lauren Pfingstag as associate director of government relations and public policy.

Claim: "The Democrats are very sly. (in New Hampshire) we have same day voter registration, and to be honest, when Massachusetts elections are not very close, theyre busing them in all over the place."
Evidence Summary: "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner," she says. "It's not like I have tested this out with some focus groups, or done a bunch of polling," she said in Des Moines. "We gotta stay focused on what matters to us. And what matter to us is that everybody gets a fighting chance," she adds. "All three of my brothers still live in Oklahoma. And one of my three brothers is a Democrat"

Claim: "In the past two years in Congress, Ive written more bills, passed more amendments on the floor of the House and enacted more of my bills into law than any other member of the House."
Evidence Summary: "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress," Young says. "There is power in elected members of the United States Congress speaking up," she says. Young: "We must end that injustice and restore the public’s faith in a better future for themselves and their children" "What I have here is the opportunity to … make this committee and its work look different for a generation," she adds. "Nothing, no bill, can ever get more radical than what is necessary to get to 218"

Claim: "Says Travis County Commissioner Gerald Daugherty claims to have taken a pay cut, but for 2016, he voted to raise his salary by 19.6 percent."
Evidence Summary: DuPage County board members voted to consolidate the DuPage County Election Commission with the County Clerk’s office. The consolidation came despite a request from Kaczmarek to hold off until after the April election. Trustees Michael Jenny, Deborah Karton, Karim Khoja and Kerry Cummings all made statements in support of opting into the Cook County ordinances. “Our voters have spoke on this. They have made it very clear,” Cummings said. ‘Do you have to be independently wealthy to be a public servant?’

Claim: "The Employment Non-Discrimination Act discriminates against Christian daycare, Christian parents, Christian business owners, and the rights of religious freedom."
Evidence Summary: Virginia does not prohibit private workplace discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. The ethics of such a move are a different matter. So-called religious freedom advocates have moved quickly to leverage the backlash. Increasingly, this is the desperate defense of those who find themselves on the wrong side of history — as well as societal and legal norms. It is a good day when a court stops this administration from sanctioning discrimination under the guise of religion or morality," the American Civil Liberties Union said in a statement.

Claim: "Now, I also support the Bush tax cuts. Sen. McCain voted against them originally. He now believes they should be made permanent. I'm glad he agrees they should be made permanent."
Evidence Summary: Romney: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" Romney: "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done" "I can be in this fight for all of our families. Because ultimately what 2020 is going to be about is not my family but the tens of millions of families across this country who just want a level playing field," he said.

Claim: "Says Erv Nelson voted yes on the pro-amnesty SJR 21, a bill urgingCongress to provide citizenship for those residing illegally in our country."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez was the lone House Democrat to vote against a bill to fund and re-open the government on Wednesday. The progressive from New York said she broke from her party because she did not want any funding allocated to Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Several elected Democrats had announced their support for abolishing the agency. President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence on Sunday defended their offer to extend protections for the so-called Dreamers in exchange for $5.7 billion for a southern border wall.

Claim: "The average student loan debt in Texas is over $22,000...the cost of an average size pickup truck. But unlike car owners, students are not allowed to refinance their loans at lower rates."
Evidence Summary: More than 44 million Americans collectively owe $1.5 trillion in student loan debt. President Obama nearly cut undergraduate student loan interest rates in half by tying them to the financial markets. But both colleges and lenders know that students defaults often happen, in part, because students don't receive adequate information about what it will cost to earn their degree or what their monthly payments will be. Just 59 percent of Americans finish a bachelor's degree program within six years at a public institution, and non-graduates are three times as likely to default.

Claim: People think AIDS is done --its not done.
Evidence Summary: HIV/Aids has impacted my life more than anything, and it continues to challenge me each day. As a teenager coming to terms with my sexuality, I faced violent homophobia. Thousands of us still endure high rates of poverty, mental health issues, social isolation and prejudice and discrimination in this country. It’s not a death sentence and we’re living much longer. The panic that once held us in acute fear has thankfully dissipated. Infection rates are reducing, but thousands of us are still living with HIV, its complications, stigma and prejudice.

Claim: "South Carolina has a labor shortage, specifically in the meatpacking industry."
Evidence Summary: "It's crucial that we tackle this issue head on," Humpton says. "I think it is really important that Parliament listens to people who are creating jobs" "It has to encompass all parts of the country," he says of apprenticeship programs. "We’ve expanded this now to other states. The folks there are thriving," he adds of Charlotte, N.C., and Spartanburg, S.C. "It's a real mix of both, and yes, I think we do appeal to folks early in their careers"

Claim: "When the City and the Fairmount Park Conservancy invested $5 million in Hunting Park, crime went down 89 percent within a half mile radius of the park over the next three years."
Evidence Summary: The National Parks Conservation Association equated the use of park fees to robbery. Park fees are meant to be used for visitor services as opposed to operations and maintenance. How will the infusion of 5,000 new households, 23,000 jobs and 12 million square feet of residential, retail, hotel and office space be managed? And with all of that glass and steel rising up, will there be enough parkland for neighborhoods already saddled with a dearth of open space? The plans for Lincoln Yards have been tweaked and honed in response to community concerns.

Claim: "On day one, six people were able to sign up for health insurance through the federal marketplace."
Evidence Summary: A majority of Americans support single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS), called Medicare-for-all. Large majorities on both sides supported “buy-ins” to existing government-run health plans. Two-thirds of Republicans and wide margins of Democrats and independents supported the proposals. High premiums for people who earn too much to qualify for federal tax credits to subsidize their costs have been a problem on the health insurance exchanges since they began for the 2014 enrollment period.

Claim: Lets start with the premise that Rhode Island already has one of the 10 strictest [gun laws] amongst all the states.
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court may provide some useful guidance on gun laws. It agreed to hear a challenge to a New York City law that forbids gun owners from transporting their firearms out of the city. Hawaii, Illinois, Vermont and New York ban the sale of all guns to anyone under 21. There is also the latest trend — “red flag’ laws, which allow police to take guns away from anyone who, in the judgment of a court, poses a danger to himself or others. The proposal, however, has already drawn condemnation from gun rights advocates.

Claim: "Says in our region, 2011 was worst drought year ever recorded."
Evidence Summary: The worst rains in 50 years in northern Mali washed away their entire crop. The increase in temperatures in the Sahel are projected to be 1.5 times higher than the global average. Emissions of carbon dioxide in the U.S. shot up in 2018, even though a near-record number of coal plants closed during the year. It's the latest in a series of stories on climate change from the New York Times' Climate Fwd: newsletter. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.

Claim: "In the 1980s, The lowest income people had the biggest gains."
Evidence Summary: Among Americans born in 1940, those raised at the top of the upper middle class and the bottom of the lower middle class shared a roughly 90% chance of realising the so-called American dream. Those raised in 1984 and maturing into adulthood today, the new reality is split-screen. The income of a tiny minority has skyrocketed. For the highest 0.1 percent of earners, incomes have grown more than 300 percent; for the top 0.01 percent, incomes has grown by as much as 450 percent.

Claim: "For every one job created under the Obama administration, 75 people went on food stamps."
Evidence Summary: Thanks to this administration’s pro-growth policies, over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. President Trump negotiated a new trade deal between the United States, Mexico and Canada to protect American workers and intellectual property. He is holding our trading partners accountable for unfair practices and pursuing deals that support domestic industries, including steel and aluminum.

Claim: "Says that after she declared her candidacy for Congress, the redistricting process was manipulated to allow incumbent politicians to guarantee their re-election."
Evidence Summary: Amendment 1's organizers ended up giving the state's last Democratic statewide officeholder a major say in picking finalists for the demographer position. Since Democrats are clustered primarily in the St. Louis and Kansas City area, people like Sen.-elect Cindy O'Laughlin believe the amendment will produce a slew of oddly shaped districts. In both of last year’s cases, lower courts struck down gerrymandered districts, saying they were so excessively drawn to benefit one political party that they violated the U.S. Constitution.

Claim: "If we got solar energy from an area of the Southwestern desert 100 miles on a side, that would be enough, in and of itself, to provide 100 percent of all the electricity needs for the United States of America in a full year."
Evidence Summary: There are now enough solar panels installed in the U.S. to power about 11 million homes. Collectively, the panels produce about 1 percent of the country’s total electricity. A 6 kW installation of solar panels, enough to power a typical American home, now costs about $14,000. “We embrace solar energy, we embrace green energy,” Plato Township Trustee Matt Clark said. "There is absolutely nothing that I can see that can stop the very rapid growth of solar in the next 10 to 20 years"

Claim: "I helped pass what, if enacted, would be the largest tax cut in Texas history through the State Senate."
Evidence Summary: Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst began her 3-day tour of the state just across the border from Nebraska, in a humble bar and grill. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," she said. "I am grateful to America down to my toes. I am grateful, but I am also determined," she added. "He had one great message, about lowering fees, and he kept hammering away at it."

Claim: "Under Ryan plan,those 54 and younger would receive the same kind of healthcare options now enjoyed by members of Congress."
Evidence Summary: Poll: 51 percent of self-identified Democrats think it’s more important for their party to focus on improving and protecting the Affordable Care Act. Yet 38 percent think it's more important to pass Medicare for all. Majority support for more incremental moves to a nationalized system: 77 percent – including 69 percent of Republicans – favor allowing people to buy health insurance through Medicare once they turn 50. 75% – including 64 percent – favor letting people who aren’t covered by their employer to buy insurance through their state’S Medicaid program.

Claim: "Says Ted Cruz has pledged to eliminate the U.S. Department of Education, which would end federal aid to college students."
Evidence Summary: Betsy Devos, Secretary of Education, said federal financial aid may contribute to year-by-year rising tuition and the debt burden that students carry years after they leave college. Devos said the student-loan programs not only bury students, but also taxpayers, because it is “stealing from future generations” The soon-to-be-divided Congress has an important role in introducing and voting on future federal policy of financial aid. However, it is unlikely any new federal policy that would improve the overall Financial Aid situation would be passed soon.

Claim: "With 320,000 net Ohio manufacturing jobs lost, (Sen. Rob) Portman calls NAFTA a proven success."
Evidence Summary: A common 2016 campaign riff was his promise to bring jobs back, get companies to return production to the U.S., and scrap NAFTA. This anti-trade campaigning caught the attention of many voters struggling to find work. Interestingly, it also got the Attention of progressive trade critics on the left who had also been calling to renegotiate NAFTA for decades. Lori Wallach, director at Public Citizen’s Global Trade, explains how their critique of corporate-rigged trade policies managed to align in some surprising ways with the president's trade nationalist agenda.

Claim: "Says a liberal immigration reform group endorsed his GOP primary opponent, Dave Brat."
Evidence Summary: The Democratic Party is swinging to the left, adopting positions in its mainstream that were once on the fringes of party debate. Bill de Blasio announced plans to launch “the largest, most comprehensive plan in the nation’ to guarantee health care for all in the city – including illegal immigrants. The idea of abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement was a radical, far-left, boutique idea until six months ago. And the new class of freshman Democratic lawmakers includes many offering their own liberal proposals.

Claim: "Charlie Crist broke the quarter ""record for fundraising in a U.S. Senate race in Florida."""
Evidence Summary: More than 100 Democratic candidates outraised their Republican counterparts in hotly contested congressional races. The party is now confronting after losing 40 seats, and control of the House, to Democrats. The way dozens of 2020 candidates raise their cash will be just as important as how much they bring in and how they spend it. The first saw Democrats collect more than $1.2 billion in online, small-dollar donations via ActBlue. The second saw more than three-quarters of newly elected congressional Democrats pledge to say no to corporate PACs.

Claim: "For the hour after the (Jan. 14) debate, Debra Medina was the No. 1 search on Google and for the remainder of that night No. 3."
Evidence Summary: Tlaib is seen recalling her son’s response to her election. “When your son looks at you and said ‘Mamma look you won, bullies don’t win,’” she appears to tell a cheering crowd. At a progressive event after her swearing-in ceremony on Thursday, the newly elected congresswoman from Michigan was recorded saying "we’re gonna go in there and we're gonna impeach the motherf-----!" Tlaib stood by her remarks, saying she is for impeaching Trump.

Claim: "Says state budget deal between Texas House and Senate leaders funds nursing homes, our public schools and universities and provides financial aid for college students."
Evidence Summary: The Texas Legislature returns to work Tuesday. Public school funding is the biggest issue singled out by both parties. Paying to help rebuild the Texas coast in the aftermath of 2017's Hurricane Harvey is another task. The Texas Legislature is only at work for five months every two years, but reliably packs drama and spectacle into such a short amount of time. It is unclear whether the district will receive the additional state aid again, and so the district tends to budget pretty conservatively, according to Price.

Claim: "When (John) Brennan ... was asked directly Is there any geographic limitation to your drone strike program? Brennan responded and said, no, there is no limitation."
Evidence Summary: Houthi spokesman Yahya Sarea said Thursday’s drone strike on a military base in Lahaj province, which killed several people, was a “legitimate operation against aggression” He said the movement was building a stockpile of locally manufactured drones. “Soon there will be enough in the strategic stockpile to launch more than one drone operation in multiple battle fronts at the same time,” Sarea told reporters in the Houthi-held capital, Sana’a, on Sunday.

Claim: "Says Time magazine called him ""one of America's best governors."""
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom is the Democratic nominee for governor of California. He is a former lieutenant governor who has been pushing for more progressive policies. Newsom could be the first Democratic governor to face a Republican in a general election. The race is expected to be a close race with Hillary Clinton expected to run for the Democratic nomination. The winner will likely face Republican Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado in the November elections. The Democratic nominee will be announced on September 11, 2015. The general election will be held on November 8, 2016, in California.

Claim: "There have been literally hundreds of new tax preferences and loopholes added to the code since 1986, last time we did this."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "This is literally what government is for. We need a federal law," he adds. "It’s time for a new tax code that works for everyone, not just the wealthy" "It's time for new tax codes that work, not new tax rates," says the former president. "We need a new system that works," says former President Bush.

Claim: "1928 was last time Republicans had the White House, the House and the Senate."
Evidence Summary: The Democratic House majority swept into power on Thursday with a powerful infusion of women and people of color. The Republicans, not so much. GOP strategist Stuart Stevens slammed the “optics’ of his party’s representatives on Friday. He said they looked like members of a corporate board from the 1950s — i.e., a bunch of white guys. A photo of the Democrats, on the other hand, looked like “America and our future,” tweeted Stevens.

Claim: "For the second quarter in a row, my campaign has raised more money than any other challenger in the nation and brought our fundraising total to over $800,000."
Evidence Summary: "Honestly it’s frustrating," Bradford said of the attention that the vote has received. "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself," Gillibrand said. "At the end of the day, people are going to support our campaign because they believe in us," she added. "For me, a few hours ago, this campaign came to an end. For all those whose cares have been our concern, the work goes on. And the dream shall never die"

Claim: "In Wisconsin, only half of all the adults with serious psychological distress received mental health treatment or medication."
Evidence Summary: Two-thirds of states don’t keep track of how many families give up custody to help a child get mental health services. A study by the Government Accountability Office found that, back in 2001, families in 19 states relinquished nearly 13,000 children. Mental health advocates say the problem is one of “too little, too late.” Even when states try to help children get access to treatment without a custody transfer, the efforts come too late in the progression of the children’s illnesses.

Claim: "On gift taking,Bob McDonnell took a fraction of what (Tim) Kaine took."
Evidence Summary: Scott Walker attempted to mock Ocasio-Cortez’s proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million with an analogy, but she used his own joke against him. At important junctures of his public career Romney has revealed himself as a supremely transactional figure, flexible in altering his words and his positions to align with self-interest as the occasion demands. Once the debate moves to the field of results, there is no denying which of two transactional figures is better at the game.

Claim: "While Exxon Mobil has 40 pages on its media response strategy, its plan for resource protection is only five pages long and its plan for oil removal is just nine pages long."
Evidence Summary: The action by the high court marked the latest setback for Exxon in its efforts to halt the Massachusetts investigation and a similar one by New York. The Massachusetts and New York investigations were launched following 2015 news reports that Exxon’s own scientists had determined that fossil fuel combustion must be reduced to mitigate the impact of climate change. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. Despite activist hysteria, oceanic drilling rigs have never been safer.

Claim: "By voting to approve [Question 1], we can . . . save 900 jobs at Twin River."
Evidence Summary: A large majority of those who spoke supported opting into the Cook County ordinances. Supporters also stated that workers should be able to stay home when sick, or with a sick relative, instead of coming to work sick because they need the money. Resident Mary Johnson said she is a social worker and works with people who make just enough to not qualify for public aid “but they don’t make enough that they can function well on their own and with their families” Resident Jeff Green reminded the board that Glenview residents supported the two advisory referenda.

Claim: "Says U.S. Senate rival Tommy Thompson wants to give a new $265,000 tax cut to millionaires like himself while raising taxes on the middle class."
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is calling for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on America's highest earners. The top rate for the rich in developed countries plunged from 62 percent in 1970 to 38 percent in 2013. In 2017, President Trump reduced tax rates for individuals and corporations, a decrease that favors the rich and businesses. The New Yorker’s Adam Davidson argues that high taxes wouldn’t rake in that much cash, and they might even scare taxpayers out of the country.

Claim: The (economic stimulus) legislation could open billions of taxpayer dollars to left-wing groups like the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN).
Evidence Summary: House Democrats' first bill is an attempt to silence or obstruct political opponents. A central part of H.R. 1 is “campaign-finance reform,” no surprise given the progressive fixation with money in politics. Most of the liberal spending in 2018 came from a single group: Majority Forward, a nonprofit controlled by allies of Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. The group reported $46 million in spending to the Federal Election Commission, about one-third of the total money spent. Another group linked to Schumer, Patriot Majority, spent an additional $5.7 million.

Claim: "At the 50 Milwaukee schools serving at least 80% African-American and at least 80% low income students, the reading proficiency is 8%."
Evidence Summary: The Los Angeles school district is the nation's second-biggest. The district is over 70 percent Latino or Hispanic, serving many non-English-speaking families. Statewide, the proportion of students of color is now at 52 percent, up from 46 in 2008. The number of African-Americans graduating with degrees in education was 1,724 in 2009. In 2016, that number was 802. It's a huge story here, and parents have a lot of questions. But we should note the district isover 70 percent Latinos or Hispanic.

Claim: Says Obama replaced the American flag on the tail of his plane with his campaign logo.
Evidence Summary: The American flag has to be flown first. The American flag is always first than any other flag. The flag was taken down and replaced with a new one. The new flag will be flown at the White House until the end of the year when it will be returned to its rightful place in the U.S. flag pole. The original flag was stolen by a man who wanted to show his support for gay rights. The man has since been found and returned to his home in Burlington, Vermont, where he lives.

Claim: "In a budget deal struck in 2011 a trillion dollars of cuts went into effect immediately, and then a special committee was set up ... to get agreement on another $3 trillion of cuts."
Evidence Summary: The federal government is in the midst of its 21st shutdown in the past 43 years. It’s time to ask how America got into this mess and how it can get out. The dispute wasn't simply a matter of haggling over a specific department budget or a single line item; it was about ideology, getting to the very core of how big the federal government should be. The first session was five days, followed by a 21-day impasse that stood now as the longest government shutdown ever.

Claim: "If you're a small business and don't ""adopt the health care plan that Senator Obama mandates, he's going to fine you."""
Evidence Summary: Survey finds 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than four years ago. Results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The U.S. is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic. The Trump administration in late 2017 made some bold health-care reforms.

Claim: "Whether in Illinois or Washington, Barack Obama has bridged partisanship to bring about significant reform."
Evidence Summary: In a city that appears more partisan than ever, these real friendships continue on underneath. From early morning circuit training to houseboat cruises on the Potomac River, lawmakers continue to hang out together. Back in 2013, those across-the-aisle relationships in Congress helped end a shutdown. But in between accusations and name calling, some lawmakers have nurtured bipartisanship – through activities like exercising, praying and eating. The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done.

Claim: "I have cut taxes 63 times, including a 2006 property tax reduction that ranks as the largest in state history."
Evidence Summary: "I applaud the president for re-evaluating what he's doing," Buchanan said. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. "Imagine if you did chores for abuela & she gave you $10. When you got home, you got to keep it, because it's only $10"

Claim: "New jobs numbers are in, and Wisconsin has fallen to dead last in Midwest job growth."
Evidence Summary: The US added 312,000 jobs in December, a huge rise well above forecasts that came amid volatile stock markets, a government shutdown and signs the economy is slowing. The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown.

Claim: "Four balanced budgets in a row, with no new taxes for anyone. The best job growth in 12 years. Nearly 130,000 new private-sector jobs. Merit pay to reward New Jerseys best teachers, and the most education funding ever."
Evidence Summary: Pritzker became the state’s 43rd governor and its latest experimentation in leadership. During an inauguration speech that cast forward, Pritzker reinforced a policy agenda he advocated on the campaign trail. He vowed to propose, debate and pass a balanced budget. “Our government will be progressive, principled, and always on the side of the people,” the governor said in his inauguration speech. "We will offer an alternative to the corruption and incompetence in the White House," he added.

Claim: "As a senator, Hillary Clinton paid women less than the men in her office."
Evidence Summary: The New York Times published an article about sexism in the 2016 presidential campaign. The article included numerous complaints that women on the campaign were paid less than men. Hillary Clinton issued a "deeply unsatisfying" explanation for why she did not fire a staffer working on her 2008 presidential campaign who was accused of sexual misconduct. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand has called on Donald Trump to resign over the sexual assault allegations against him. She wrote and passed legislation that changed the way that Congress handled its own sexual harassment lawsuits.

Claim: "Today, we import triple the amount of oil than we had on the day Senator McCain took office."
Evidence Summary: "Let's see who gets tired first: Those who steal the fuel or us," he said. Trump claimed US Steel was opening eight new plants, then nine. He also lashed the Democrats for their refusal to allocate $5.7 billion for his wall. He insisted, without evidence, that the amount is “way less than other other presidents’ have requested“I took office amid a great ethical, moral and economic crisis. I am committed to changing our history,” he said, adding: ‘I’m only one person’

Claim: "Shutdowns are a normal part of the constitutional process, with 12 shutdowns under Democratic House Speaker Tip ONeill and two during his own speakership."
Evidence Summary: "I don't call it a shutdown, I call it doing what you have to do for the benefit and safety of our country," says Rep. Jan Schakowsky. At nearly four weeks, the federal government has been shut down for the longest period in history. A Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll reportedly shows 50% blame the president for the shutdown, while 32% see the Democratic Party as culpable. The House Speaker has previously called Mr Trump's border wall plan "a waste of money" and "immoral"

Claim: "Since 2007, Texas has gained 440,000 people while Maryland has lost 20,000."
Evidence Summary: Texas topped the list, adding nearly 380,000 people last year – as if the state had added another city the size of Arlington. The biggest population losers between July 2017 and July 2018 were the high-tax, Democrat-controlled states of New York and Illinois. The exodus from two of the nation’s biggest Blue States continues, according to new numbers from the U.S. Census Bureau. Many Red States, meanwhile, continue to gain population. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each.

Claim: "My two appointments to the Florida Supreme Court, Raul Cantero and Kenneth Bell, have earned reputations as its most consistent conservatives."
Evidence Summary: Ron DeSantis will be sworn in as Florida’s 46th governor on Tuesday. Many of his picks for his new administration have, predictably, followed his predecessor Rick Scott's brand of hardline conservatism. But other considerably more moderate appointments have left his supporters scratching their heads. One of the first issues he must tackle is appointing three new members to the Florida Supreme Court. Whomever he picks, the panel will automatically become less diverse with the retirement of Peggy Quince, an African-American who has served since 1982.

Claim: "Mercury is used in vaccines, and there is no safe level of mercury."
Evidence Summary: If anything, the benefits of reducing mercury have been vastly understated. Since the rule was finalized, the science documenting the severe health impacts of mercury has become even stronger. The cost associated with harm from these was not even monetized by the E.P.A. The Royal Society has also recommended that vaccinations should be available in a wider range of locations, including “pop-up” clinics in the high street, gym and workplaces for adult vaccines such as flu and shingles.

Claim: "Tommy Thompson is the father of welfare reform, creating the groundbreaking Wisconsin Works program in Wisconsin that became the model for national and international reforms."
Evidence Summary: Phillip Thompson: The right has long associated welfare programs with nonwhites. Thompson: This view of welfare as the sole province of minorities is incorrect and deeply ironic. He says the free market push of the Reagan revolution was part of a broader attempt to assert so-called traditional values after the upheavals of the 1960s and ’70s. Thompson says the Democratic Party would be better off to listen, before it’s too late.“I have built a cabinet of people who bring with them experiences I don’t share, from communities I did not come from,” he says.

Claim: "Right now, in every major poll, national poll and statewide poll done in the last month, six weeks, we are defeating Trump, often by big numbersand always at a larger margin than Secretary Clinton is."
Evidence Summary: The president said that if Romney had fought as hard against Obama as he did him, “he would have won the election” The president reiterated his commitment to pull troops out of Syria “in a short period of time” but also qualified that there’s “no timetable” Trump's claim of 93 percent support refers only to his support among loyal Republicans. Gallup polling for months has shown his job approval ratings underwater, with support hovering lately around 40 percent. A 57 percent majority of Trump voters believe that most or all of the congressional GOP supports Trump.

Claim: "Says Obamas net neutrality proposalputs the government in charge of determining Internet pricing, terms of service and what types of products and services can be delivered."
Evidence Summary: Rep. David Cicilline, D-R.I., is the new ranking member of the antitrust subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee. His subcommittee is charged with overseeing antitrust issues that come before the House and evaluating the effects of monopoly power on the economy. In a recent interview with Bloomberg, the representative laid out his objectives in plain terms: “Our job is to figure out the responsible way to regulate these large platforms so that we are promoting competition, protecting privacy and making them responsible stewards of lots and lots of data”

Claim: "Earmarked dollars have doubled just since 2000, and more than tripled in the last 10 years."
Evidence Summary: 5.1 billion is a pittance compared to our 4 trillion budget, but it is much more than the 1.4 billion given in the Secure Fences act in 2006. When the fruits of change have fallen on the US in recent decades, the very fortunate have basketed almost all of them. The same could be said of others around the world. And now many of the people who broke the progress machine are trying to sell us their services as repairmen. But the president’s numbers have been wildly different. Mike Pence two weeks ago offered us $2.5 billion, within an hour the president said no.

Claim: "Our economy (in Louisiana) has grown 50 percent faster than the national GDP, even since the national recession."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The monthly jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. The labor market gains have been widespread, with unemployment rates for black, Hispanic, and female jobseekers reaching record lows. The small business job creation engine is so strong that there are now 6.9 million unfilled jobs in the country, surpassing the number unemployed last year for the first time in history.

Claim: [The] ACLU and atheists in Denver are demanding the NFL stop [Tim Tebow] from praying on the sidelines.
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court on Tuesday denied a petition from a Seattle-area high school football coach who was fired for refusing to stop leading prayers on the field after games. Former Bremerton High School Coach Joe Kennedy, after his firing, had filed a First Amendment suit against his former school district. Lower courts had said that Kennedy was not immediately entitled to get his job back, rejecting his claim that the school district violated his free speech rights by putting him on paid leave. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit ruled in 2017 that Kennedy acted as a public official by praying in school attire.

Claim: "Lois Frankel spent over $13,000 in taxpayer money on a marble shower in a private bathroom with her own toilet."
Evidence Summary: Nancy Pelosi and her husband are worth over $30 million. One man listed all the bills that have piled up and asked if Lara Trump would like to contribute. The couple allegedly blew much of the money on vacations and gambling, and the scheme was exposed when the homeless man sued over not receiving the money. It’s exactly the sort of meritocratic story the right claims to love. (Even though they don’t seem to actually think they’re possible) It's the American dream literally unbelievable.

Claim: "Wisconsin uses voting machines that are outlawed, they are illegal."
Evidence Summary: The judge also struck down a law passed during the lame duck session that requires a 2-year expiration date on student IDs used for identification at the polls. Early voting in Wisconsin has increased steadily since 2016. More than 547,000 absentee ballots were cast in the state during the 2018 election, which set a new record for early voting turnout for a midterm election, according to the Wisconsin Elections Commission. "We saw voters respond incredibly when voting was expanded in Wisconsin - voters stepped up, they saw the ability to vote and they voted," said One Wisconsin Now.

Claim: "Says uncompensated health care costs absorbed by Texas hospitals are adding $1,800 a year to Texas private insurance rates."
Evidence Summary: As of Jan. 1, 2019, hospitals will be required to post the cost of medical procedures online. Knowing the price of health care services could be helpful, but there are important considerations to keep in mind. The prices hospitals post won’t include the costs of having a doctor look at you. Because insurance often covers some of the cost, it’s unlikely that the price you see will be thePrice you pay. The lawsuit challenging the Medicare cuts was filed by the American Hospital Association, two trade groups representing teaching and public hospitals.

Claim: "Countries bombed: Obama 7, Bush 4"
Evidence Summary: U.S. and coalition aircraft dropped the highest number of bombs over Syria in the month before the president made his withdrawal announcement. 1,424 weapons released in November, up from 876 in October and 758 in September. In a statement on Friday, the military said that its partners had only "recently liberated" a town from the terror group, calling ISIS a "determined ... force who employed complex attacks, improvised-explosive devices and booby-trapped buildings"

Claim: "A report in Navy Times said that 7.3 percent of Army, Navy and Marines have thought about attempting suicide."
Evidence Summary: The Veterans Crisis Line helps about 2,000 callers every day. Tragically, an average of 20 veterans die by suicide each day. The suicide rate among female veterans was 1.8 times higher than non-veteran women in 2016. Male veterans between ages 18 and 34 have the highest rate of suicide. Each branch of the military should work with vets and their families to develop a personalized mental health plan for when they get home. We must repair and expand the mental health system for our fighting men and women.

Claim: "Hillsboroughs Public Transportation Commission has a rule that says cabbies have to wear socks. I mean, please. Come on."
Evidence Summary: Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel says police union needs to "modernize what they’re doing" Emanuel: "I was talking about old-school police union stuff" "It’s state law that you guys have to help us. If you can’t help us, please get someone who can,” bus driver says. "Why was I never called and texted that my child wasn't at school yesterday?" parent asks. "It never should have happened," district spokeswoman Pati Nash says.

Claim: "Increasing the min. wage to $15 an hour would reduce spending on food stamps, public housing and other programs by over $7.6 billion a year."
Evidence Summary: At $7.25 an hour, the minimum wage is now more than 25% below where it was in real terms half a century ago. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that raising it to $15 an hour would directly or indirectly lift the wages of 41.5 million people. This would generate $144bn in additional income for families who need it most, including 23.1 million women and 4.5m single parents. And research has generally found that minimum wage increases don’t lead to mass layoffs as employers adjust to a new pay floor.

Claim: "Almost 1,000 people a day are moving to Florida because they are more free here than they are in some other states."
Evidence Summary: There is no disputing a relationship between higher tax rates in states and lower net population migration. Blue states like Connecticut, Illinois and New York with higher taxes and a higher cost of living are losing residents or gaining population at very low rates. No-income-tax states such as Florida, Nevada, Texas and Washington have grown at double-digit rates this decade. Florida is a key swing state in the presidential election, where it seems it's never too early to talk about Florida and elections.

Claim: "In Flint, Mich., the pipes still havent been replaced. The water is still poisoned."
Evidence Summary: Flint was one of the worst man-made environmental debacles in U.S. history. The city of 100,000 pulled water from a river in 2014-15 without treating it to reduce corrosive effects on old pipes. Lead infected the distribution system in Flint, where 41 percent of residents are classified by the government as living in poverty. The water no longer comes from the river and has significantly improved, but some residents are so distrustful that they continue to use bottled water.

Claim: "Here in Virginia, we have the opportunity to become the first state on the East Coast to explore for and produce oil and natural gas offshore."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," she says. On her work teaching writing at the Beckley Federal Correctional Institution: "I think there's a great story in every human being" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing when you look at who is representing us"

Claim: "Health care reform: Everything about it is going to raise costs, raise taxes and lower the quality of health care."
Evidence Summary: Andy Slavitt: Americans are keen on the idea of creating a new government-run insurance program. But Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment voluntary, he says. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy, they get more skittish about the idea, Slavitt says. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all’ these days, he adds. But to succeed, those Democrats still have a lot of work to do.

Claim: "Since 1965, the United States has spent untold trillions yet the poverty rate hasnt budged."
Evidence Summary: Oxfam has been putting out variations on these bleak stats every year since 2013. Hickel refers to them as “almost too extreme to wrap one’s mind around” Yet little seems to change. “Just producing data doesn’t necessarily change people’S proclivity to do anything about it,” Alice Evans, a lecturer in the social science of development at London School of Economics, told HuffPost. The top 1% has more than tripled, and that of the top 0.001% has risen more than sevenfold.

Claim: "Says U.S. Rep. Ann McLane Kuster used $293,000 of taxpayer money to send campaign mail."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Maxine Waters' campaign may have some financial issues of its own to sort out. The Citizens for Waters report to the Federal Election Commission from Dec. 11 lists $183,022 in debt to her daughter Karen Waters. Watchdog groups have raised questions about the propriety of campaign funds financially supporting a family member, as well as Waters raising contributions in excess of federal limits through an unusual process. The complaint asked the elections board for a full audit of Preckwinkle’s campaign committees.

Claim: "Boccieri voted to spend a billion dollars an hour, every hour, for his first 50 days in office"
Evidence Summary: Bolsonaro vows to tackle graft, violent crime and revive an economy still sputtering after the collapse of a commodities boom. His law-and-order rhetoric and plans to ease gun controls have resonated with many voters, especially in Brazil's booming farm country. He also lashed the Democrats for their refusal to allocate $5.7 billion for his wall. He vowed to strip away the so-called "Brazil Cost" that hamstrings private enterprise. The political culture of the Five Star Movement is rooted in its late co-founder Gianroberto Casaleggio’s obsessions with impending doom.

Claim: "While Mandels been busy traveling the country raising campaign money, he hasnt shown up for work."
Evidence Summary: "I have the biggest anti-corruption proposals since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington, you think?" "We are serene and we let the process follow its course. He will speak at his inauguration." "Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. I'm just hoping this government opens up" "The government really needs to get together and work this out" "It is about money in politics, it's about the influence of money.”

Claim: A million people a year come into the U.S. legally. No other country even comes close to that figure.
Evidence Summary: "It is unfair that these people have to wait close to two years for citizenship or permanent residence," she says. Capps: "The big Asian countries of China and India are sending more people to the U.S. each year now than Mexico" She predicts that trading DACA amnesty for border wall funding will lead to broader grants of amnesty over time. The number of undocumented people coming from Venezuela, which is wracked by political and economic turmoil, increased from 60,000 in 2013 to 145,00 in 2017.

Claim: "The Obama administration was actively supporting Al Qaeda in Iraq, the terrorist group that became the Islamic State."
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration repeatedly blames Obama for the rise of Islamic State militants in part because of the decision to withdraw most troops from Iraq. Trump and his advisors claim credit for combating the group and dismantling most of the so-called caliphate it built across large swaths of Iraq and Syria. However, the success in fighting Islamic State has come in the final phase of a military campaign launched under Obama. It is untrue that Obama claimed radical Islamic terrorism does not stem from ideology. What he said was that the 9/11 terrorists did not represent the full face of Islam.

Claim: "Due to the war in Iraq, 4,400 Americans are dead, 30,000 severely wounded and more than 100,000 are suffering from serious health problems related to post traumatic stress syndrome."
Evidence Summary: A rare convergence of experts on the human costs of war will discuss the often-ignored outgrowth of the global war on terror. The panelists are Alissa J. Rubin, the Times Paris bureau chief who won a Pulitzer Prize for foreign reporting on Afghanistan in 2015. Azmat Khan, an investigative reporter and New York Times Magazine contributor, uncovered civilian casualties among nearly 150 airstrike sites across northern Iraq. Brian Castner, a veteran of the Iraq war and weapons expert for Amnesty International’s crisis team, who also investigates war crimes and human rights violations.

Claim: "When the Republicans were in charge, they actually expanded government health care with the prescription drug program."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. 74 percent – including 47 percent of Republicans – favor a national government plan like Medicare that is open to anyone, but also would allow people to keep the coverage they have. The poll was conducted Jan. 9-14 among 1,190 adults nationwide. The margin of error is 3 percentage points.

Claim: "Says administrator salaries were increased, but other school employees were left behind."
Evidence Summary: Bosma said the target could help boost teacher salaries while the state budget remains tight. State fiscal analysts project tax revenues will grow by about 2.5 percent each year for the new two-year budget starting in July. The state's troubled Department of Child Services is seeking about two-thirds of that money to keep paying for hundreds of new child welfare caseworkers added over the last few years. The IG’s findings included: A former high school music teacher “mismanaged” at least $13,000 raised by the acclaimed choir he directed. A high school principal is facing dismissal after improperly hiring an unlicensed dance teacher who taught at the school for two years.

Claim: "In 1790, the first Congress, which was packed with framers, required all ship owners to provide medical insurance for seamen; in 1798, Congress also required seamen to buy hospital insurance for themselves. In 1792, Congress enacted a law mandating that all able-bodied citizens obtain a firearm."
Evidence Summary: When the Framers gathered in Philadelphia in 1787 to form a new national government, slavery was, as historians have often remarked, the proverbial witch at the christening. Slavery was so deeply embedded in American life that of the nation’s first 12 presidents, only two—New Englanders John Adams and his son John Quincy Adams—never owned slaves. Even Harriet Beecher Stowe, author of the great anti-slavery...How often, for example, was the president supposed to brief Congress?

Claim: On the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Evidence Summary: Rebranded Trade Deal Gives Member Countries An Edge Over The U.S. The GOP-controlled House approved the fast-track power, known as Trade Promotion Authority, in 2015. Critics of TPA argue that it deprives Congress of the essential right to debate and amend trade agreements before an up-or-down floor vote. Many Democrats also viewed the vote on TPA as a de-facto referendum on then-President Barack Obama’s 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.

Claim: "Says that when Congressman (Steve) Cohen took office in 2007, the unemployment rate was at 4.8 percent. The unemployment rate in Shelby County has reached 9.7 percent."
Evidence Summary: The jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon, saying the "tremendous" jobs number was partly due to companies repatriating.

Claim: "Says President Obama has grown the federal government payroll by 141,000 workers and wants to add 125,000 more."
Evidence Summary: Original estimate that the partial shutdown would subtract 0.1 percentage point from growth every two weeks has now been doubled to a 0. 1 percentage point subtraction every week. With no deal to fund the government on the horizon, an estimated 800,000 federal employees likely won't get paid until late January. The Treasury department furloughed roughly 72,400 workers. That is nearly three times the number of people who work at Facebook. It’s also more than the 640,000 people employed by the entire textiles and clothing manufacturing industry.

Claim: "In Florida, when Jeb Bush was governor, state authorities conducted a deeply flawed purge of voters before the presidential election in 2000 and in2004 a plan to purge even more voters was headed off."
Evidence Summary: Florida voters restored voting rights to up to 1.5 million mostly black felons. Ruben Navarrette: The sight of so many Americans eagerly registering to vote was a rare bright spot in a nation where the right to representative government is under strain. He says in several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. Navarro: It's a partisan play, and a discriminatory one at that. Such ploys should be deemed unacceptable in our democracy.

Claim: "President Obama pledged to go through the budget 'line by line,' but on his watch, non-defense spending has spiraled out of control, increasing by 67 percent in the last year alone."
Evidence Summary: David Gergen: There must be fencing the Obama folks created that can be extended or renewed at a modest increase in spending. The longer the impasse, the more the public will blame both parties, Gergen says. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion, and is expected to balloon above $1 trillion next year. Gergen is the director of the Center for Public Leadership at the Harvard Kennedy School and a former White House adviser to Presidents Nixon, Ford, Reagan and Clinton.

Claim: "From a standpoint of the county government, neither school system has received an increase in funding over the past six years."
Evidence Summary: “I’m not against taxes and funding our schools as that is our future,” said Oswego resident John Secor. “Despite needing about $780 million in new dollars per year, this is doable by means of a modest tax increase of $2 billion to $3 billion which is actually less than half of 1 percent of the state budget,’ said Aurora resident Jan Pietka. California provides some of the lowest levels of per-pupil funding in the nation, Beutner said.

Claim: "In Providence, R.I., its illegal to sell toothpaste and a toothbrush to the same customer on a Sunday."
Evidence Summary: Brenda Biandudi doesn't normally go to fast food chains, but it was New Year's Eve and she needed somewhere to use the restroom and buy a drink. She noticed it was nearly empty inside, save for a middle-age man who had just gotten his order and was walking over to the condiments. When the man saw there were no plastic straws, however, he got upset - and began walking back to the counter to berate a cashier, according to biandudi.

Claim: "A new Colorado law literally allows residents to print ballots from their home computers, then encourages them to turn ballots over to collectors."
Evidence Summary: More than 275,000 inactive Ohio voters are about to get their final opportunity to keep from dropping off the rolls. Paper ballots and paper-based machines are more efficient, secure and cost-effective. There is no reason why so many voters should be forced to use old and faulty machines, some of which do not produce any secure paper ballot, when there is a simple solution available. In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls.

Claim: "Georgia has lost more than 124,000 jobs and the unemployment rate has increased since the stimulus passed"
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon.

Claim: "Says state Rep. Patrick Rose votes 90 percent with liberals, backed the states largest tax increase, proposed nearly $15 billion in government spending and supported Obama-style government-run health care system for Texas."
Evidence Summary: Texas' last legislative session ended with one lawmaker threatening to shoot another after reporting Hispanic protesters to immigration agents. The Texas Legislature returns Tuesday, and unlike places such as Colorado and Minnesota where Democrats seized control of legislative chambers in November's midterm elections, Republicans remain firmly in power. But they also took their licks: Democrats flipped 14 seats in the Legislature, closing the gap.Extending healthcare benefits to undocumented immigrants – that idea would have been hugely controversial 10, 15 years ago and now that’s barely generating a ripple.

Claim: "During the Eisenhower Administration, not a single soldier died in combat."
Evidence Summary: "I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers," Nixon said. "I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, or the sadness gripping their souls," he added. "How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?" "I spent most of the time hoping not to get killed," he said of his time in office. "You were always on edge. You sleep in the middle of the day. I don't know if any president has ever done this."

Claim: "California Senator, Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein said if she could say to Mr. America and Mrs. America, Give me your guns, Im rounding em up, she would."
Evidence Summary: Virginia state senator openly carries a .38-caliber revolver strapped to her hip. Sen. Amanda Chase said she became concerned for her safety after a group of immigration activists confronted her colleague. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and other Democrats announced a bill to expand background checks for sales and transfers of firearms. “Now is the time to come together, be responsible. We must never stop fighting," said former Democratic Rep. Gabby Giffords at the event Tuesday. The legislation marks one of Pelosi’s first acts since retaking the role of House Speaker.

Claim: "The average fast food worker is 29, and most fast food workers are on some form of public assistance."
Evidence Summary: Z-Burger in Washington, D.C., gave away $12,000 worth of free burgers, fries and drinks to any worker with government identification. Owner Peter Tabibian: "A lot of government workers are our customers and they have supported us in the past and are very loyal" He said kids of lower socioeconomic status are more likely to live in food deserts, where healthy foods are largely inaccessible and there are the most fast food restaurants per capita. "Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. I'm just hoping this government opens up."

Claim: "Says that in the last five years, Texas created more jobs than all other states combined."
Evidence Summary: Texas added 379,128 new residents from July 2017 to July 2018, according to U.S. census data. Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000 people. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "By 2015, we will be sending so much interest to China that we will be paying for the entire Peoples Liberation Army."
Evidence Summary: Washington "cannot push China too far" and must avoid a situation that "spins out of control," says a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman. The clash reflects American anxiety about China's emergence as a competitor in telecoms, solar power and other technologies. China's leaders have offered to narrow its politically sensitive trade surplus with the United States by purchasing more soybeans, natural gas and other American exports. There have sometimes been criticisms on Chinese social media, quickly deleted by censors, that Beijing was spending money on overseas development that would be better spent at home.

Claim: "At the time that (Medicare Part D) was passed (it) was actually less popular than the Affordable Care Act, according to the polls."
Evidence Summary: The poll found that Americans initially support ‘Medicare-for-all,’ 56 percent to 42 percent. But if they were told that a government-run system could lead to delays in getting care or higher taxes, support plunged to 26 percent and 37 percent, respectively. In this scheme, employers would have the option to keep offering their own plans, thereby giving their employees a choice. In Kaiser’s polls, these proposals were even more popular than Medicare for all, although Kaiser didn’t test how these ideas held up to common conservative criticisms.

Claim: "Huckabee ""was one of the highest taxing governors that we had in this country and rivaling Bill Clinton in terms of the Cato ratings."""
Evidence Summary: Out of the 19 Republicans who have held the highest office only six were former governors. Of the 15 Democratic presidents seven, including two of the most consequential, Franklin Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson, were ex-governors. Any of the governors on this list would have to win as dark horse candidates. It may be only now, without the presence of his longtime rival, Hillary Clinton, that the Democrats get down to defining what that means. The list includes former Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper, Washington Governor Jay Inslee, Montana Governor Steve Bullock and former Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe.

Claim: "In an average grocery store, roughly 75 percent of processed foods contain genetically modified organisms, or GMOs."
Evidence Summary: Survey of more than 2,500 people in Europe and the U.S. found that as a person’s opposition toward genetically modified (GM) foods became more extreme, their objective knowledge of the science and genetics dropped. The study, titled “Extreme opponents of genetically modified foods know the least but think they know the most,” found the results were “consistent with previous research on the psychology of extremism.” GM foods are foods that have been genetically altered in a way that doesn’t occur naturally.

Claim: "In reality, there have been no problems whatsoever with the Texas voter ID law."
Evidence Summary: "That would not have been possible without the support of the residents of Harris County," she says. "It's not like I have tested this out with some focus groups, or done a bunch of polling," she adds. "I’m total[ly] for border security. If you live in Texas, you get it. We want people to realize the American dream, but they need to do it legally,” Williams says. “I see no reason why the bills that are ready to go and on which we’ve achieved an agreement should be held hostage to this debate.”

Claim: "An April study found that about 70 percent of ads in this election cycle have been negative [due to SuperPACs], up from only 9 percent through the same period in 2008."
Evidence Summary: Liberal groups accounted for 54% of the $150 million in dark-money spending in last year’s election cycle, conservative groups 31% and nonpartisan or bipartisan groups 15%. All told, the report found that nonprofits that don’t disclose their donors have invested almost $1 billion in political ads and messaging in the years since the Supreme Court ruling on Citizens United. A liberal group called Majority Forward, which spent $46 million on ads and was active in 10 competitive Senate races last year, was the biggest nonprofit spender during the midterm elections.

Claim: "Because George Holding doesnt live in the congressional district hes running for, he doesnt experience the same things that we are all experiencing."
Evidence Summary: "I get where they’re coming from. But my role in government is to manage a lot of competing interests," she says. "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’ll see something so magical that you have not seen before," she adds. "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner" "We gotta stay focused on what matters to us. And what matter to us is that everybody gets a fighting chance"

Claim: Says President Obama has never made a statement ... that he wanted a residual force left (in Iraq).
Evidence Summary: Pompeo's comments come amid growing confusion regarding the U.S. troop withdrawal from Syria. In December, Trump asserted that the fight against ISIS was over, and he would pull approximately 2,000 U.s. troops out of Syria within 30 days. But after an outcry, top administration officials, including Pompeo, have said the withdrawal has no timeline and is conditions-based, including the enduring defeat of ISIS, protection for the Kurds and assurance that Iran can't increase its influence in the region.

Claim: "In the last 15 years, weve witnessed a dramatic expansion in the jailing of immigrants, from about 70,000 people detained annually to about 400,000."
Evidence Summary: The number of unauthorized immigrants in the United States has been declining steadily since at least 2007. Over the past 10 years, undocumented immigration has increasingly taken the form of visa overstays rather than unlawful border crossings. Almost 7 out of every 10 immigrants have been living here for over a decade, building peaceful and hardworking lives that affirm the American ideal and contradict Trump’s nativist demagoguery. When uprooted, their stories of deportation are harrowing. Audits question medical care.

Claim: "Palin ""fired Wasilla's Police Chief because he 'intimidated' her."""
Evidence Summary: Ferguson said in his report that Escamilla tried to defend himself by claiming the officers’ care for his son was all part of a “test case” for a new community policing study. In cases where officers are accused of lying or making false statements it’s not unusual for department bosses to move to fire them. “You don’t throw people away because they made a mistake,” he said after the news conference at the school. The court-ordered release sparked citywide protests and sullied the reputation high-ranking political leaders.

Claim: "Its bad enough that (Stephen) Silberkraus appeared in a sexual fetish film where women were kidnapped from their homes and forced to live naked in kennels and trained to be pets. But when Silberkraus isnt acting in films that degrade women, hes stalking them in his personal time."
Evidence Summary: Rape Crisis and Glasgow MSP Bob Doris have condemned the films. A number of women have come forward to warn others against him. One woman, who did not want to be identified, said she had been approached several times at her gym and in the street. The mother of one of the victims wrote that she wouldn’t wish the experience on anyone. Both victims described how Hegyi’s actions caused depression and mental health problems. “Minor children have attempted to commit suicide and succeeded as a result of being targeted in sextortion plots like those carried out by (Hegyi) here,” Koster said.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton voted to raise taxes on workers earning as little as $41,500."
Evidence Summary: A majority of voters support a proposal floated by U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to dramatically increase the highest tax rate on the wealthiest Americans to as high as 70 percent. Around 59 percent of registered voters support the idea, according to a Hill-HarrisX survey. The New York Democrat set off a nationwide debate with her comments on CBS's “60 Minutes” that she would support the increase to fund her climate change plan. The proposed tax hike would affect those making $10 million or more, she said.

Claim: "You know, the approval rating of Congress is down to 13 percent."
Evidence Summary: “Republicans just need to stay together, and I believe that will happen.” “The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done." “Believe it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about.’ “We have the reverse in New York. Andrea Stewart-Cousins comes in and takes over the Senate. I think one of her first priorities is [to] show we can function”

Claim: "In Oregon, students are skipping math class to learn about the Bible."
Evidence Summary: Republican state Sen. Dennis Kruse’s bill seeks to place a poster reading “In God We Trust’ in every public and charter school classroom in Indiana. The bill would also allow public schools to teach creationism and offer a survey course on world religions. Critics say the measures come perilously close to violating the constitutional line between church and state – and in practice, might overstep it. So far this year, Bible literacy bills have been introduced in Florida, Indiana, Missouri, North Dakota, Virginia and West Virginia.

Claim: "Before 2005, the percentage of Texas high school students meeting the college readiness standards of the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board stood at 28% in English and 42% in math. Those figures stood at 65% and 66% in 2013."
Evidence Summary: Just 22 percent of the high school graduates who enrolled in Tennessee Promise in 2015 had graduated two years later. Nearly half – 48 percent – had dropped out. Just 13 percent of community college students nationally graduate in two years, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. The Texas pass rate for first-time test takers fell 4.5 percentage points to 73.4%.In 2018 alone, university officials said they did nearly 3,000 “course corrections” to make sure students were enrolled in the right classes for their major.

Claim: Obama's liberal fiscal agenda: Over $874-billion in new spending.
Evidence Summary: Federal spending outpaced revenue by $317 billion over the first three months of the fiscal year, the budget office reported. That was 41 percent higher than the same period a year ago, or 17 percent after factoring in payment shifts. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion, and is expected to balloon above $1 trillion next year. That explains why the Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026.

Claim: "After I had resigned or announced my resignation, I abolished -- I prohibited pay-to-play for people that had county or state contracts."
Evidence Summary: The board was stymied last summer when then-Chairman Aaron Lawlor took an indefinite leave of absence to deal with an alcohol and drug addiction. Lawlor never resigned his chairmanship or his seat on the board. A senior employee with New Jersey’s economic-development agency is resigning. She says Gov. Phil Murphy's office retaliated against her after she spoke publicly about an investigation into one of the Democratic governor's senior staffers. The board will discuss and vote on the ordinances again at its Feb. 5 meeting.

Claim: "If lawmakers fail to avert the fiscal cliff, 18 percent of the federal money that is sent to the states will be eliminated."
Evidence Summary: The original estimate that the partial shutdown would subtract 0.1 percentage point from growth every two weeks has now been doubled to a 0. 1 percentage point subtraction every week. Total federal revenues in 2018 came in roughly where the Tax Foundation, a Washington think tank that typically projects large growth boosts from tax cuts, had forecast — which is to say, well below the budget office’s baseline. Just because the new law helped to increase economic growth, “it doesn’t mean that it is going to pay for itself”

Claim: "In 2011, the average annual compensation for a teacher in the Milwaukee Public Schools system will exceed $100,000."
Evidence Summary: The union argues that the district is hoarding reserves of $1.8 billion that could be used to fund the pay and staffing hikes. Teachers earn between $44,000 and $86,000 annually depending on their education and experience. The district says the average teacher salary is $75,000, which reflects the older, more experienced workforce. Teachers are pressing for higher pay, smaller class sizes and more support staff that school officials say could bankrupt the nation's second-largest system.

Claim: "Overall we currently have $981 million, almost a billion dollars in active development projects right here in the City of Richmond."
Evidence Summary: Microsoft will loan $225 million at below-market interest rates to help developers build and preserve "workforce housing" on the Eastside. Another $250 million will go toward market-rate loans for construction of affordable housing across the Puget Sound region. The remaining $25 million will be donated to services for the region's low-income and homeless residents. Microsoft is coupling its contributions with a call for other companies to step up, and for Seattle's Eastside suburbs to facilitate more housing.

Claim: "Sixty-two percent of all personal bankruptcies are ""caused by medical problems."""
Evidence Summary: Cancer survivors ages 18 to 49 appeared hardest hit by these problems. About 43 percent had health-related money problems, compared to 30 percent of their counterparts who never had cancer. 31 percent delayed care due to costs compared to 21 percent of average people this age. Young adults may struggle the most because cancer might interrupt their education and limit their access to employer-provided health insurance, the study says. The Commonwealth Fund, a New York City philanthropic organization, presented some troubling study results last fall.

Claim: "U.S. teenagers have now fallen behind their counterparts in Ireland, Poland and even Vietnam in math and science."
Evidence Summary: In the past few decades, there has been a transformation in who gets to become a graduate. More than one in three 18-year-olds are studying in higher education. English pupils receiving free school meals were 83% more likely to go to university than they were in 2006. American inventors create astonishing new ways to learn thanks to the power of video and the internet. But the average US high-school leaver tests more poorly in reading today than in 1992. The share of young people who own a business has fallen by two-thirds since the 1980s.

Claim: "Under the new Arizona immigration law, police can't stop someone to check their immigration status unless they think they see something illegal."
Evidence Summary: Arriaga crossed into Arizona from Mexico a couple of years ago and had been working as a farm laborer in California's Central Valley. He has two prior DUI arrests, authorities said. California's newly enacted “sanctuary state” law, SB 54, passed in October in response to President Donald Trump's immigration policies, for prohibiting law enforcement in the state from reporting Arriaga as a "criminal illegal alien" to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The day after the shooting, as authorities scoured the state for Arriaga, Trump tweeted "Time to get tough on Border Security"

Claim: "California gubernatorial candidate Steve Poizner, a Republican, ""gave $10,000 to Al Gore's recount"" effort in 2000."
Evidence Summary: More than 100 Democratic candidates outraised their Republican counterparts in hotly contested congressional races. The performance of candidates like former Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-Texas) established the political potency of swearing off super and corporate PACs. Expect almost every Democratic candidate to make it part of their stump speech, and for Montana Gov. Steve Bullock to place it at the center of his campaign if he runs. “We’re hoping to create a domino effect,” said Adam Green, the co-founder of the PCCC.

Claim: Just remember this: the presidents health care bill put 30 million people on health care rolls that werent there before.
Evidence Summary: During the fourth quarter of 2018, 14 percent of Americans were uninsured. That’s up from 11 percent at the end of 2016, and the increase has been steady over the months since then. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. Results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. At its peak, just after Obamacare was passed but before it went into effect, nearly one-in-five Americans lacked health insurance.

Claim: "Every time we raise the minimum wage, the number of jobless people increases."
Evidence Summary: The labor market has been so strong that it has drawn millions of people back into the workforce. Since Trump's election, more than five million net new jobs have been created, driving the unemployment rate down near a half-century low. The benefits of a minimum wage increase are so great that even President Donald Trump has advocated for one in the past. Democrats cannot abandon their goal of a higher minimum wage for America’s workers given the many potential health benefits, writes Julian Zelizer.

Claim: "Congressman Jeff Denhamhas agreed all illegal immigrants should be detained, arrested and deported."
Evidence Summary: In October the Western States Sheriffs Association released a statement on the immigration crisis saying that it was at a “critical juncture” “Our border patrol partners are overwhelmed,” said Wilmot. “I don’t care who was elected.” He later won Senate confirmation to be U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. "It makes no sense why a state like California that harbors millions of illegal immigrants is rewarded with additional representation in Congress and taxpayer resources at the expense of more rural states like Montana," Daines said.

Claim: "In 2011, more people were murdered with knives, hands or feet or clubs and hammers than with any type of rifle."
Evidence Summary: Virtually without exception, more guns equals more violence, says Yvonne Smith. Studies from the U.S. and around the world consistently show increases in firearm ownership and carrying are positively correlated with increases in homicide and suicide. In Brazil, a 1 percent rise in firearm availability increases the homicide rate by 2 percent, Smith says. "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets," she asks. "The trauma that is turning our young people into victims and perpetrators of violence"

Claim: "The national economic recovery has led to higher than expected tax revenues and projected budget surpluses in nearly every state in the nation, including Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: This is not a blip or an outlier or the impact of a recession that ended 10 years ago. These are the taxpayers who don’t want to keep getting stuck with the bill for the decisions Democrats in the legislature have advanced. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Pritzker said in his inauguration speech. "Let’s make America great again," he said.

Claim: "Says 15,000 IRS employees have to be added to administer ObamaCare and look at the tax implications."
Evidence Summary: The IRS said was recalling about 46,000 of its employees, over half its workforce, as the official start of tax season approaches Jan. 28. For the moment, Schwartz's concerned clients can only ponder whether to wait to get through, and perhaps risk penalties and interest, or pay what the IRS says they owe. "Getting communications from the IRS tends to freak people out, so when you can't get them an answer, it gets a little scary," says Schwartz, of Carlsbad, California.

Claim: "As a senator, Hillary Clinton actually paid female staffers a lot less than men."
Evidence Summary: Bernie Sanders says he was not aware of claims of sexism in 2016 campaign. “I was a little bit busy running around the country trying to make the case,” he said. A New York Times report described one incident in which a female member of the Latino outreach team said she was told she was supposed to share a bedroom with three men she didn’t know. Another former staffer told the paper that she made $2,400 a month but that a younger male staffer whom she was meant to manage made $5,000 a month.

Claim: "According to recent reports, a group of death panels organized under Obamacare ordered their first execution."
Evidence Summary: Arizona state agencies order a long-term care company to pay for a third-party manager to oversee the center where a patient in a vegetative state gave birth last month. House Democrats introduce a measure that would expand background checks for sales and transfers of firearms. “Today is a day of action. We say, ‘enough is enough,’” said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., at an event highlighting the new bill on the eighth anniversary of the mass shooting in Tucson.

Claim: "Weve just now given over $100 billion to Iran, the equivalent in U.S. terms is $5 trillion."
Evidence Summary: President George W. Bush’s inclusion of Iran in his “axis of evil” speech alarmed Iranian leaders. It was at this juncture that Iran cut a deal with the so-called EU-3 to suspend all aspects of its nuclear program. By then, America found itself in a sectarian civil war in Iraq that was inflamed by Iran and its proxies.India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi had apparently told him that his country had constructed a library in Afghanistan. "I don't know who's using it", quipped Mr Trump, "but I don't like being taken advantage of."

Claim: "My campaign finished the last quarter reporting the most cash on hand of any Republican in the field $13.8 million in the bank, $3.5 million more than the Jeb Bush campaign."
Evidence Summary: More than 100 Democratic candidates outraised their Republican counterparts in hotly contested congressional races. That kind of uniformity and heft in small-dollar donations — typically defined as $200 or less — was missing on the Republican side. It's a sign that the way dozens of 2020 candidates raise their cash will be just as important as how much they bring in and how they spend it. It also represents a continuation of two trends from the 2018 elections. The first saw Democrats collect more than $1.2 billion in online, small- dollar donations via ActBlue. The second saw more than three-quarters of newly elected congressional Democrats pledge to say no to corporate PACs.

Claim: "Says he ""fought against $3 billion in cuts to public education since 2003."""
Evidence Summary: At the heart of the strike is the issue of resource distribution. The state of California spends comparatively little on education per pupil. While the union and the district agree that the state should spend more on public schools, they are locked in a bitter fight over how the district should use the money it already has. The union has pointed to a nearly $2 billion reserve, which it says could be used to pay for more educators. But Mr. Beutner has said the district is already spending far more than it brings in.

Claim: "When we moved into the White House, we had the lowest net worth of any family since Harry Truman."
Evidence Summary: The number of households with $10m or more skyrocketed by 856%. If the trajectory of the past three decades continues, by 2050 the median white family will have $174,000 of wealth. The median Black family is on track to reach zero wealth by 2082. 37% of Black families and 33% of Latino families have zero or negative wealth, compared to just 15.5% of white families. The latest homeless count for New York City found 78,676 people.

Claim: "Says that even if his budget is adopted, private schools in the choice program would be getting about half the per-pupil funds that public schools receive"
Evidence Summary: Los Angeles teachers complain of class sizes of up to more than 40 people. Many elementary schools only have a nurse for one day a week. Many observers say that an agreement between the union and the district will ultimately require more money from Mr. Newsom’s budget. "We should not be siphoning off taxpayer dollars, which are in demand, to pay for vouchers," said Rep. DeLauro. "Sometimes maybe parents should decide to be good citizens over being good parents," she said.

Claim: "According to the CDC, 110 million Americans now have a sexually transmitted illness."
Evidence Summary: Survey: Doctors not able to appropriately assess cancer risk for members of the LGBTQ community. The research also found a lack of understanding of some of the personal and family issues LGBTQ patients may face. The consequences of this disparity are substantial: a surge in outbreaks of measles, mumps, pertussis and other diseases; an increase in influenza deaths; and dismal rates of HPV vaccination. But infectious disease experts warn that things could get much worse. Trust in vaccines is being so thoroughly eroded, they say, that they are in danger of becoming useless.

Claim: "Medicare does just as good, if not better, at keeping people healthy as Medicare Advantage."
Evidence Summary: “Medicare for all sounds as a good idea, but Medicare is not as good of benefits as the Affordable Care Act is,” Pelosi said in an MSNBC town hall interview last week. “The Medicare for all, you have to review, what are the benefits?” “We’re deeply invested in the myth that medicine has drastically increased the human lifespan and will continue to do so,’ Lieberman said. � “But there are a few very simple ways that everyone can make healthier choices.”

Claim: "For the first time in 13 years, our dependence on foreign oil is below 50 percent."
Evidence Summary: The last 15 years have ushered in an American energy renaissance. New technologies such as fracking and horizontal drilling have enabled developers to tap huge underground energy reserves. We're now the world's top producer of both natural gas and oil. That means the U.S. is now well on its way to achieving the once unthinkable: complete energy independence. The progress has had huge, largely underappreciated national security implications. It's made us less vulnerable to market manipulations by rogue regimes. The outlook was much better for consumers at the fuel pump in November.

Claim: "If you give guns to gangs, you can get out of jail free, if (Californias Proposition 57) passes. If you do a drive-by shooting, you can get out of jail free, if Proposition 57 passes. If you discharge guns on a school yard, you can get out of jail free."
Evidence Summary: The data on crime, and what it says about reforms, has been contested. Small upticks in some types of crime in some areas has muddied the picture. One of the most controversial changes in California was a law passed last year to end cash bail. Activists see parallels in the strategies of opponents of more lenient sentencing laws in California and the rhetoric on crime at the national level. The new system will also use algorithms to assess whether a defendant is a flight risk or might commit another crime.

Claim: "I joined the Gang of 14, seven Republicans, seven Democrats, so that we wouldn't blow up the United States Senate. Sen. Obama had the opportunity to join that group. He chose not to."
Evidence Summary: Obama actively campaigned for Democrats in last year’s midterms, endorsing more than 300 candidates. His blessing remains highly coveted, and the public comments from his former staff and advisers are parsed for clues about his thinking. Should he throw his support behind a candidate down the road, he could be the only prayer the party has of a semblance of unity. “Republicans just need to stay together, and I believe that will happen,” Obama said in an interview with CNN. ‘I’m only one person,’ he said.

Claim: "Gov. Nathan Deal has taken at least $15,600 from the (Koch brothers), their businesses, and their employees."
Evidence Summary: Americans for Tax Fairness says securing Trump's tax returns "is an important public policy objective" The progressive billionaires — Oprah Winfrey, Warren Buffett — are a different breed of fat cat. The Kochs pay for politicians in order to enrich themselves and to gut regulations affecting the polluting industries that made them billionaires. Last year, Tom Steyer spent more than $100 million of his own money helping Democrats get elected, and he says he will drop another bundle on Senate races in 2020. Much of the shift is also due to conservative groups spending less than in previous elections.

Claim: "A couple retiring today will pay about $119,000 in lifetime Medicare taxes and receive about $357,000 in lifetime Medicare benefits. ... about 3 bucks in benefits for every dollar in taxes."
Evidence Summary: The 2020 Health Insurance Tax (HIT) would raise premiums or reduce benefits for seniors and low-income beneficiaries on Medicare Advantage. Sanders’ plan builds on Medicare, the insurance program for seniors. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services. The insurance industry would be regulated to play a minor role in the system. The higher the income, the more you pay. Only wealthier beneficiaries are paying the higher premiums right now.

Claim: "The Democratic health care plan is a ""government takeover of our health programs."""
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Democrats have at least eight substantive proposals for achieving universal coverage, and they have a lot more similarities than differences. Now is the perfect time to expose them to the public, debate the merits, and engage experts to improve on these proposals or introduce new ones. During the Obama years, Republicans failed to advance new ideas and weren't ready when it came time to govern. The Democrats shouldn’t make the same mistake.

Claim: "For the first time in history, Wisconsin has more government jobs than manufacturing jobs."
Evidence Summary: Pritzker's buoyant inauguration speech certainly had that Reagan brio to it. Illinoisans in 2018, like Americans in 1980, saw a state in decline under four dreary years of the Rauner administration. We have nearly 13,000 manufacturing firms in Illinois that employ more than 580,000 people. One out of 10 computer science degrees in the nation comes from Illinois colleges and universities. Our entrepreneurs continue to be tireless dreamers, whether it’s Jamie Gladfelter creating a software development incubator in Galesburg.

Claim: "The top 10 most well-paid CEOs in America received a combined $770 million in 2010, while the average American workers wage rose just 2 percent."
Evidence Summary: Wages in manufacturing suffered one of the largest declines in real wages, which slipped 2.4 percent last year. Transportation witnessed the biggest dip, with real wages losing 3.9 percent compared with a year earlier. The salary of the average FTSE chief executive is the same as that of 386 Britons on minimum wage combined. Top executives now earn 133 times more than the average worker; in 1998,. the ratio was 47. UK CEOs make more in first three days of 2019 than worker's annual salary.

Claim: "Four percent of American citizens are black males, but they are 35 percent of murder victims."
Evidence Summary: According to data released by the city, 75 percent of shooting victims and known perpetrators are black males between the ages of 16 and 34. The criminal justice system and these judges send the message that the life of a young black man is worth less than that of a white man. Research suggests that homogenous juries are also measurably worse at figuring out whether someone is innocent or guilty. It is true firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, almost 24,000, or 60 percent, of those were suicides.

Claim: "The federal government may put 16,500 IRS agents in charge of policing President Obamas health care bill."
Evidence Summary: "Getting communications from the IRS tends to freak people out, so when you can't get them an answer, it gets a little scary," says Schwartz, of Carlsbad, California. At the morning roundtable, the delegation mainly listened to the federal workers and peppered them with questions. They asked them to talk about the ways their fellow employees have been impacted and cite examples of when they’ve heard outcry from the public. ‘How about the normal slob who can’t even pay his rent?’ said Marvin Friedlander, who served as a senior IRS official in the mid-2000s.

Claim: "This Congress made history as the least productive, most unpopular Congress in the history of this proud nation."
Evidence Summary: Newt Gingrich says he's amazed at the enthusiasm of the new Congress. He says the new members arrive with an enthusiasm and hope that they can make a difference. Gingrich: For most of them, this will be the happiest day of their service. But they will spend the next two years in one of the most frustrating periods of their lives, he says. "I hope that we can get progressive change," Gingrich says of the Congress, led by Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the House.

Claim: "According to 2009 estimates, an agreement with Panama could result in almost 1,900 Florida jobs in thefirst year and about 15,000 jobs afterfive years."
Evidence Summary: The 43 municipalities included in the plan have boasted combined economic growth of 3.1 percent. Much of that robustness owes to trade and proximity with the U.S. "We have to take advantage of this locomotive that we have on the other side of the border," she said. The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector, which added 50,000 jobs last month and 346,000 for the year. The trade deal preserves the existing liberalized environment of low or no tariffs among the U,S., Mexico and Canada.

Claim: "Weve added, in the last eight years, $4 trillion of debt to the nations obligations."
Evidence Summary: The obsession with debt is looking foolish even at full employment. The next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. Thanks in large measure to Trump's obscene tax giveaway to corporations and the wealthy, our national debt is now $2 trillion more than it was when Trump took office. It’s now $22 trillion and projected to soar to $33 trillion by fiscal year 2028, now nearly eight years and nine months away. The Fix the Debt fixation (yes, they’re still out there) look even worse than before.

Claim: Says Newt Gingrich aligned with Nancy Pelosi on global warming.
Evidence Summary: New poll: 86% of Democrats say climate change is happening, just 52% of Republicans concur. Climate change has become an increasingly animating cause for progressive Democrats. Scientists warn that policymakers have a little more than a decade to stave off catastrophic climate change. If Michigan’s Gretchen Whitmer and Wisconsin's Tony Evers follow suit, the additions of their states to the climate alliance would mean half the country's population would be represented. The U.N. says 2018 will be Earth's 4th-warmest year on record.

Claim: "The Jewish holiday Purim is ""their version of Halloween here."""
Evidence Summary:  Epiphany is held every year on Jan. 6 and marks the end of the 12 days of Christmas. Tradition holds that the person who retrieves the wooden cross will be freed from evil spirits and will be healthy throughout the year. A July report from The Community Security Trust found 100 anti-Semitic incidents are now reported every month in Britain. Dozens of Filipinos have themselves nailed to crosses on Good Friday in another tradition to emulate Christ's suffering that draws huge crowds and tourists each year. The spectacle reflects the unique brand of Catholicism, which includes folk superstitions, in Asia's largest Catholic nation.

Claim: "Under Scott Walker, Wisconsin unemployments up from 4.8% to 6.2%"
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide.

Claim: "If you have a job in this country, (theres a) 97 percent chance that youre not going to be in poverty."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "And I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments," he adds. "Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I'm doing" "I am grateful to America down to my toes," he writes. "I’'m determined that we build an America where not just the children of rich people get the chance to build something, but where all our children get a chance to built a real future"

Claim: "According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 71.2 percent of Hispanic registered voters in Texas and over 86 percent of African American registered voters participated in the 2012 elections."
Evidence Summary: South Carolina saw a 30.1 percent increase in the amount of Hispanic eligible voters between 2014 and 2017, according to the Pew Research Center. Julián Castro, former Housing Secretary under President Barack Obama as well as former San Antonio mayor, is scheduled to officially announce his presidential run plans this weekend in his hometown. The only Latino in the race, so far, is a military vet and former West Virginia state senator, Richard Ojeda (pronounced Oh-JED-ah rather than the Spanish pronunciation of Oh-HAY-dah).

Claim: "Wisconsins state budget is almost twice as large per person as the state budget of Texas, and even after billions in tax cuts, Wisconsins working families and businesses remain subject to a heavy tax burden."
Evidence Summary: Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy. The less fortunate should be assisted through social service programs until they can get on their own feet and become independent. Without more prudence in handling the huge budget crisis in Illinois, more and more citizens will move to other states where tax rates are more equitable, Linda McDaniel-Hale says. The ‘Illinois Exodus’ is swelling, she says, and it’s not a blip or outlier.

Claim: "Says CNNs Wolf Blitzer was wrong to say that the wealthiest Americans, they pay the most in taxes already -- 50 percent of Americans dont even pay any federal income tax."
Evidence Summary: A poll taken last weekend by The Hill-HarrisX found 59 percent support for taking income over $10 million at 70 percent. A 2017 Reuters-Ipsos poll found 76 percent of respondents agreeing with the proposition that “the wealthiest Americans should pay higher tax rates,” with 53 percent expressing strong agreement. In Illinois, where newly elected Gov. J.B. Pritzker has promised to work to overturn the state constitutional ban on graduated state income tax rates. A survey by Business Insider found that 38.7 percent supported such a tax rate, while 34.4 percent opposed it.

Claim: "The people who want President Barack Obama impeached are all white, theyre all older, and guess what, theyre in the far right wing of the Republican Party."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump posted two tweets quoting from a Pat Buchanan column to support his push for a wall on the southern border. Buchanan's column explicitly accuses Democrats of wanting to encourage immigration because, he writes, the party is "hostile to white men" A Republican congressman says the diverse Democratic party appears to be ‘no country for white men’ In this era of social media, off-color comments take on new meaning. With the advent of smartphones, everyone can capture video and broadcast it to the world.

Claim: "Fifteen years ago, the assets of the six largest banks in this country totaled 17 percent of GDP ... The assets of the six largest banks in the United States today total 63 percent of GDP."
Evidence Summary: Bank deregulation and property boom led all banks to lend far more than they ever had before. As the volume of lending grew, property prices rose and bonuses rolled in. The bankers took their eyes off their balance sheets - a fact which by 2008 was painfully apparent. US banks are expected to reveal the scale of bankers bonuses as Wall Street lenders report their 2018 full-year earnings. The CBI said the survey results should serve as a warning shot about the UK economy. “Financial services are a bellwether for the wider economy,” said Rain Newton-Smith.

Claim: "When (Ronald) Reagan came in, from 1978 to 1982, economic growth averaged less than 1 percent a year. Theres only one other four-year period where thats true. Thats true from 2008 to 2012."
Evidence Summary: Under Reagan, America drastically ramped up defense spending in a successful bid to bring down the Soviet Union. Despite the strong economy, Wall Street suffered its worst day ever under Reagan. The Dow plunged an astonishing 22.6% on Black Monday. The S&P 500 posted five separate years of double-digit growth on the Gipper’s watch, including a 26% spike in 1985. The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended.

Claim: "For the first time in nearly two decades, we produce more oil here in the United States than we buy from the rest of the world."
Evidence Summary: Saudi Aramco, the world's top oil producer, is looking to acquire natural gas assets in the United States. It already owns Motiva, the biggest U.S. oil refinery. Amin Nasser told Reuters in an interview that his company wants to increase its U.s. investments. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," Nasser said. "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to."

Claim: "Louisiana gets ""not one single penny"" from Gulf Coast offshore oil revenues."
Evidence Summary: The partial government shutdown is the longest in the history of the United States. Despite this, the Trump administration has still found a way to plow ahead with its “energy dominance” agenda. The failure to hold upcoming Gulf lease sales would “have a negative impact to the Treasury and negatively impact investment in the U.S. Offshore Gulf of Mexico,” BOEM wrote in its updated plan. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories.

Claim: "For the first time in U.S. history, a personal inaction will be deemed unlawful -- not purchasing a health-insurance plan"
Evidence Summary: Judge Reed O’Connor put on hold his earlier ruling stating that Congress rendered the ACA unconstitutional by zeroing out the individual mandate in 2017. The stay would normally have been a formality, but O'Connor devoted 30 pages (and 78 footnotes) to a gratuitous reiteration of his first decision. The case springs from Congress’ decision in 2017 to ax the penalty for Americans who fail to purchase health insurance.Democratic lawmakers have already announced plans to appeal Judge Reed O' Connor’s ruling that the Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional.

Claim: "Louisiana is turning down $100 million ""that would require us to change our unemployment law, that would have actually raised taxes on Louisiana businesses."""
Evidence Summary: Illinois Conservative United board member Jane Carrell sarcastically said that the flight of taxpaying citizens to other states apparently is not going quickly enough for the Illinois General Assembly. “Rushing in to approve a massive gas tax hike just because fuel prices are low is reprehensible. We need to be strategic about funding roads, not predatory,” she said. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor.

Claim: "Over the last 40 years, this countrys prison population has grown by 500 percent."
Evidence Summary: Overcrowding is putting services at risk and jeopardising progress, says Stewart. Staff need to work in a safe environment, he says. "All these guys do is think and hatch plans and figure out how to get weapons. It's like a molotov cocktail waiting to explode" It's a refreshing departure from Chris Grayling, who announced on his appointment as justice secretary in 2012 that jails would “no longer be holiday camps”. He smiles, and answers quickly, “I’ve got to begin bringing it down. If it’s still going up in August – I’m gone”

Claim: "While President Obama says all options are on the table for preventing a nuclear Iran, Hagel says military action is not a viable, feasible, responsible option."
Evidence Summary: Bolton is the scariest of the bunch – a terrier-like zealot who seizes on an issue and worries it to death, impervious to facts or reason. He acted thus over Iraq, urging George W Bush to invade on what wiser heads knew were bogus grounds. Bolton is repeating the mistake over Iran, where he has previously advocated forcible regime change regardless of the consequences. Once again, a supposed WMD threat is being exaggerated and conflated with insincere concerns about democracy and human rights.

Claim: "Even our attorney general who is a strong Democrat, she has said that we need causation in our workers comp system. Thats the No. 1 thing pushing our manufacturing jobs out of Illinois."
Evidence Summary: Democrats will succeed or fail based on a set of key metrics, columnist says. Illinois voters shot themselves in the foot again last November, he writes. Chicago and the state of Illinois have no laws barring powerful politicians such as Burke from running profitable law practices that feed off of government activity, and feed Burke did, he says. The city’s inspector general sought to pry into the way Burke ran the program, and twice Burke successfully sought to exempt the workers’ comp system from full IG oversight.

Claim: "Every time you buy an airline ticket, the federal government runs a background check on you."
Evidence Summary: The TSA sets the security screening rules, and the TSA also employs thousands of agents to carry out the screening. Americans want the government to protect them, not the TSA’s budget and personnel levels. privatizing screening services can mean screening that is cheaper, more accountable and as secure as a government-run model. This isn’t a return to pre-9/11 security, either. The TSA should remain as the setter of security rules and conduct strict oversight. Instead of government employees doing the screening, private companies would provide the manpower to do so.

Claim: "In the first 24 to 36 hours of the operation in Libya, you saw $115 million go downrange because a Tomahawk cruise missile is a little over $1 million each."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has spent $8 billion on Afghanistan's air force. Saudi Arabia is buying $15 billion worth of missile defense material and technology from the United States. The companies are key suppliers to the Saudi Arabian military, which is conducting an ongoing campaign in Yemen. More than two dozen House members, including Reps. Jim Banks (R-Ind) and Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del), were spotted at a birthday party for Heather Podesta at Chloe last night. The Saudis have been sympathetic to Saudi Arabia's desire to defend itself against Iran.

Claim: "In the past year, DeKalb has attracted and retained more than 2,300 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Payroll processor ADP said Thursday that private businesses added a robust 271,000 jobs in December. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion. Hiring has been unusually strong as the unemployment rate has fallen to 3.7 percent — a 49-year low — from 4.1 percent at the start of 2018. The Labor Department's report on December employment will give further clues about small business hiring, although the government does not break out job gains by company size.

Claim: "Two years ago...I wrote to Secretary Paulson, I wrote to Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke, and told them [subprime lending] is something we have to deal with."
Evidence Summary: Transcripts released by the Federal Reserve on Friday revealed the extent of then-governor Jerome Powell’s misgivings about the central bank's 2013 stimulus program of bond purchases. Mr. Powell said the Fed was stuck on the edge of a rooftop. “We’ve got to jump,” he told his colleagues, according to transcripts of the Fed's 2013 meetings. Several officials, including Mr Powell, were wary of continuing a stimulus program. It was only 16 days ago that the Fed raised interest rates and its chairman, Jerome Powell, conveyed that he was fundamentally confident.

Claim: "Sue Lowden gave Harry Reid's campaigns a thousand dollars in five different elections, helping his Senate dreams come true."
Evidence Summary: The Affordable Care Act has so far withstood McConnell and Trump’s efforts to dismantle the legislation. Reid was prescient in urging the Obama administration and congressional Republicans to go public about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. “Oh, no, why would I?” Reid told me when I asked him if he felt betrayed. � “And I won, didn’t I?!” “My personal feeling should have nothing to do with it,” he said.

Claim: "Says Gov. Charlie Crist has called him ""a rock star."""
Evidence Summary: The event honoring Rorex and the courthouse was attended by Colorado Governor Jared Polis, the first openly gay man ever elected governor in the U.S. The former lieutenant governor promised to represent “a California for all,’’ including rural Californians who live in the most economically challenged and conservative rural regions of the state. Florida's incoming Republican governor Ron DeSantis came under fire after he maintained that the amendment could not go into effect until after the state legislature took action.

Claim: "Says these Jersey Shore folks, theyre from New York."
Evidence Summary: Central Florida is debating the question of what Tampa residents should be called. Tampanians, Tampans or is it Tampeños? NPR's Ari Shapiro talks with TV host Mario R. Núñez, who sparked this debate. "There’s no basic community services here, no supermarkets, playgrounds, parks, libraries, churches – nothing,” says resident Warren Davis. "I'm a city kid, born and raised in the Bronx. I've always been a city denizen, which means my entire adult life I've lived in cities"

Claim: "Says he cured Charlie Sheen and the island of Comoros of HIV with milk from goats, which had arthritis."
Evidence Summary: Anderson finally got a heart transplant in November 2016, but four days after doctors closed his chest, his fever was back and his lungs kept getting worse. Tests came back positive for a flu-like virus and B. cepacia, according to the hospital. “Where did he get it?” his parents pleaded. At the time, no one knew. The FDA is supposed to inspect all factories, foreign and domestic, that produce drugs for the U.S. market. It's unclear where they are now or what will happen to them.

Claim: Says Kelly Ayotte voted again yesterday against a proposal to expand background checks -- (buyers) can continue to simply go online or to gun shows to purchase guns without background checks.
Evidence Summary: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Rep. Mike Thompson and former Rep. Gabby Giffords will officially unveil the legislation. The bill would require individuals who are not licensed gun dealers to bring the weapon to an authorized vendor to conduct background checks of prospective purchasers. Similar legislation introduced by Democrats while they were in House minority over the last eight years was never considered while Republicans were in control. The NRA counters that universal background checks would not have prevented any of the mass shooting events in recent years.

Claim: "Has created 60,000 net new jobs since taking office."
Evidence Summary: Over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise.

Claim: "In Texas, schools do not even have to teach sex education."
Evidence Summary: Sex education has always been a taboo in Malaysia, says education minister. She says she will be using the incident as a platform to examine the lack of sex education in Malaysian schools. In Virginia there is minimal statewide protection for LGBT people. It is legal for private employers to discriminate on the basis of sexual and gender identity. The doctrine signed by parents also asks that they do not “propagate doctrines” that are not in agreement with the belief that “God created the heavens and earth and all life by direct act”

Claim: "Terry McAuliffe cashed in, walking away with millions from the demise of Global Crossing."
Evidence Summary: Terry McAuliffe fires a shot at the left: Democrats need a “realistic, optimistic and focused” message. The Associated Press dug into McAuliffe's PAC's 2018 spending and found that it raised over $300,000 in the second half of 2018 and spent money on donations to the state Democratic parties of New Hampshire and Iowa. On this week's episode of Slate Money, we talk about Vanguard’s founder, discuss the latest in Brexit woes, and take a look at Trump's bad deal-making skills.

Claim: "Historically, the Social Security tax has been assessed on about 90% of U.S. income. Now it captures 83% because theres been such a growth of income among the highest earners."
Evidence Summary: In 1980, America had a top income-tax rate of 70% for individuals, nearly double the current top rate of 37%. From 1940 through 1980 the top rate for the highest earners never dipped below 70%. Today the bottom rate is 10 percent -- higher than the punitive tax rate that was supposed to hit only the Kennedy and Rockefeller kids. New taxes are often imposed on “the rich” or “them” Then over time, they trickle down to hit all of us.

Claim: Statistics show you are about nine times more likely to be assaulted by a taxi driver in Austin than a driver for a ride-hailing service.
Evidence Summary: Taxi drivers often work late hours and are exposed to potentially dangerous people. They also have a homicide rate over 20 times that of the average worker. Vehicle accidents are the most common cause of fatalities for taxi drivers and chauffeurs. A large share of fatalities, about 35 percent, are the result of violence by other people or animals. Uber now has sufficient customers - in California at least - to generate enough rides to make driving a taxi worthwhile even in areas with low population densities. The key is the size of the network, says Mr Salzberg.

Claim: "A year ago, in March 2007, I called for immediate action to address abuses in the subprime market, and I laid out detailed concrete proposals for how to do so."
Evidence Summary: Last summer investors in leveraged loans couldn’t gobble them up fast enough and were willing to pay much higher prices and accept lower yields. “I took office amid a great ethical, moral and economic crisis. I am committed to changing our history,” he said. ‘We must speak truth about police brutality, about racial bias, about the killing of unarmed black men,’ he added. � ‘I intend to do just that. This book is not meant to be a policy platform, much less a fifty-point plan.’ “This market is starting to become mature and sophisticated, there’s positive sentiment,“ a trader said.

Claim: "While in the Illinois Senate, Barack Obama passed legislation moving people ""from welfare to jobs."""
Evidence Summary: Illinoisans in 2018, like Americans in 1980, saw a state in decline under four dreary years. Pritzker, like his predecessor, never held office until his November victory. The Democrats have super majorities in both houses, so there is nothing to stop them implementing their agenda. If they expect working-class and minority voters who turned out in great numbers to turn out again in 2020, candidates and elected officials need to speak directly to people's daily struggles and advance concrete proposals.

Claim: "Every American now is $51,000 in debt. Thats money I owe, thats money my children owe before they even go to kindergarten, thats their check to the federal government right now."
Evidence Summary: The new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt. They could talk about their own experience of debt, be it student or medical, or the debt of someone in their family. To win the middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters, especially on health care and education.“We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending”

Claim: The Republican candidate [John Loughlin] has talked about privatizing Social Security ... so we know where he stands on the issue.
Evidence Summary: Many Democrats do not support Medicare for All. Even Democrats unwilling to endorse it are frequently calling to expand public insurance programs. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence. Allowing President Donald Trump to destroy our federal government this way over a failed 2016 campaign promise is un-American.

Claim: "Says cuts by Gov. Rick Perrys administration left 12,000 teachers without a job."
Evidence Summary: Los Angeles teachers have been on strike for nearly a year. They are demanding a 6.5 percent pay raise, new caps on classroom size, and more funding for librarians, nurses and counselors. The state of California spends comparatively little on education per pupil. Today, 29 states have lower education funding than they did in 2008, and nationwide, education funding is still about $450 lower per student than it was a decade ago, according to a Center on Budget and Policy Priorities report.

Claim: "For people with insurance, the only impact of the health care law is that their insurance is stronger, better and more secure than it was before. Full stop. Thats it. They dont have to worry about anything else."
Evidence Summary: "I'm sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments," he says. "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I’m doing." He adds: "I have two sisters who went without medical care for years prior to the ACA because they had inadequate insurance or no insurance at all. I try not to contemplate how different their lives might be now if they had been able to receive medical treatment"

Claim: "Marco Rubio spent $400K of your tax dollars remodeling offices, and building a members-only lounge."
Evidence Summary: Inaugural committee spent more than $1.5 million at the Trump International Hotel, according to internal documents. $10,000 for makeup for 20 aides at an evening inaugural event. $2.7 million to a company that produced a Broadway-style rendition of “New York, New York’s” “Are You Less Honest Than a Fifth-Grader’’. $104 million spent, double the amounts of President Barack Obama”s first inaugural.

Claim: "Says Texas state funds were spent on a TV series on spouses cheating on their wives, kind of glorifying the act of cheating."
Evidence Summary: The couple allegedly blew much of the money on vacations and gambling, and the scheme was exposed when the homeless man sued over not receiving the money. The LGBT civil rights group Lambda Legal said the court’s Tuesday decision was “perplexing, to say the least” Meanwhile, Trump has defended the high school students who were filmed apparently confronting a Native American activist and military veteran. In a tweet on Tuesday, the president said the students “have become symbols of fake news”

Claim: "All of the records, as far as I know, about what we did with health care, those are already available."
Evidence Summary: If patients had easier access to their medical records, they would have more information upon which to decide what health insurance plans to purchase. This would alleviate the current physician shortage. The Trump administration has enjoyed remarkable success in providing greater access to high quality health care at lower cost."Whatever happens, I'm always going to know that fact. Even if I have to spend the rest of my life convincing the administration, or whoever comes next," says Dr. Tom Frieden, the president of the American Academy of Family Physicians.

Claim: "Nevada is No. 1 in unemployment, violent crime, car theft, divorce, robberies and foreclosures."
Evidence Summary: Violent crimes in El Paso have fallen sharply from about 6,500 in 1993 to around 3,000 today. The data on crime, and what it says about reforms, has been contested. Small upticks in some types of crime in some areas has muddied the picture. Activists see parallels in the strategies of opponents of more lenient sentencing laws in California and the rhetoric on crime at the national level. The former attorney general, Jeff Sessions, warned early last year about a “staggering increase in homicides”

Claim: "Under Gov. Scott Walker, Wisconsin projected a $1 billion (budget) surplus and it turns out to be a deficit of $2.2 billion."
Evidence Summary: Walker signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in up to 13,000 new jobs and a $10 billion investment. Critics say Foxconn won't deliver on its promises and that the $3 billion Walker pledged to the company was too much. He’ll have to negotiate a new contract with the state’s largest employee union, which endorsed him, after it remained at an impasse with Rauner.

Claim: "Never once did they (House Republicans) actually cut spending or reduce the state budget. Even when they cut taxes in 2005, they increased spending. They never paid for their tax cuts."
Evidence Summary: Some Republican lawmakers snickered at a bill that would treat violence against transgender individuals as the hate crime that it is. Republicans remain obsessed with former secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email system, insisting Team Clinton was not only stupid and careless (it was), but also criminal. Republicans shed several hundred state legislative seats: 253 to be precise. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "Twenty percent of our electricity currently comes from nuclear power plants. I think there are 104 in the United States, two of them around the coast in California."
Evidence Summary: In 2017, the TVA generated 40 percent of its power from nuclear, 26 percent from coal, 20 percent from gas, and 10 percent from hydro. The TVA projects only modest shifts by 2027, with 43 percent of electricity from nuclear. Hitachi’s decision to shelve its plan to build a £16bn nuclear plant at Wylfa in Anglesey was excellent news. It is being “out-competed” by alternative technologies, especially wind and solar, the business secretary, Greg Clark, had to concede in the Commons.

Claim: "Tells David Cicilline, 94 percent of the carbon emissions which you so want to get rid of are caused by nature."
Evidence Summary: "We are destroying the natural world," he said, "and with it, ourselves" "You want to address climate change, which can potentially destroy every living thing, but at the same time, you don't want to put anyone out of work," Trump said. "You can't be an absolutist . life is much more complex than that," he added. "But they also lead to more investment in low fuel economy cars and more driving," he continued. "And that means even less progress on fighting climate change"

Claim: Says Mary Burkes Madison school district will be the only school district left in the state to ignore the (Act 10) law in the 2015-16 school year.
Evidence Summary: Police say a 32-year-old woman tried to enroll in high school classes in New York. The woman is facing charges of offering a false instrument for filing, falsifying business records and criminal trespassing. Michaelann Goodrich allegedly told administrators at Cairo-Durham High School that she was a 15- year-old girl named Riley Madison. Under the McKinney-Vento Act, which states that homeless children and youth cannot be denied education, the school was required to immediately enroll Goodrich.

Claim: "As has been noted by many observers, including Bill Clinton's former secretary of labor, my plan does more than anybody to reduce costs."
Evidence Summary: "He had one great message, about lowering fees, and he kept hammering away at it." "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I’m doing." "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies" "The government really needs to get together and work this out"

Claim: "Thirty-eight states -- Georgia not included -- have appointed, rather than elected, state school superintendents."
Evidence Summary: House members voted 70-29 largely along party lines in favor of changing the superintendent position to one appointed by the governor. The bill moves up the change by four years as the Republican-dominated Legislature passed a law in 2017 making it an appointed position starting in 2025. Supporters say moving up the appointment date makes sense since current Republican Superintendent Jennifer McCormick announced in October that she wouldn't seek re-election in 2020. Opponents argued the move concentrates power with the governor at the expense of voters.

Claim: "On average, each U.S. military working dog saves the lives of between 150 and 200 servicemen and women over the span of his career."
Evidence Summary: Love Underdogs is just one of dozens of charities importing rescue dogs from abroad. Romania has one of the biggest street-dog problems in Europe. Government figures on dog imports include commercially bred puppies. No dog imports from Romania in 2013, and 3,616 the following year. Last year, the figure was 15,548. The rescues of horses, cats and dogs were among the most emotionally-charged jobs because of the animals' importance to their owners. "For me, there are few better feelings than knowing you've saved an animal's life - particularly when they are somebody's pet"

Claim: "Had the online change of address been in place in 2008 an estimated 130,000 voters who cast provisional ballots could have changed their address online and voted a regular ballot."
Evidence Summary: Paper ballots and paper-based machines are more efficient, secure and cost-effective. Paper does not break down and cannot be hacked. There is no reason why so many voters should be forced to use old and faulty machines, some of which do not produce any secure paper ballot. In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. Last year, Democrats passed voting reforms in the state assembly, only to see them die in the Republican-controlled state senate.

Claim: "Tourism accounts for 439,000 jobs in the state of Ohio, and visitors spend $36 billion annually."
Evidence Summary: The tourism record represents a 3.1% increase over 2017’s total of 48.5 million visitors. In 2017, travel spending generated $2.4 trillion in economic output and supported 15.6 million American workers. U.S. travel exports totaled $251 billion, creating a $77 billion travel trade surplus, reducing our trade deficit. We look forward to working with the 116th Congress to boost our economy, create jobs and lower ourTrade deficit. Together we can advance policies that help our country thrive.

Claim: "Says food stamp growth, while high, lagged the rise in unemployment."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. Stock prices rose on the economic news, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average closing Friday with a 3.3% gain. The latest monthly jobs shows that the economic weakness causing stock markets to drop isn't yet visible in the employment figures.

Claim: "After the shootings of Dallas policemen, nearly 500 people applied in just 12 days."
Evidence Summary: "The level of violence directed at the police in the first few days of 2019 is alarming," Arlington, Texas, police chief Will Johnson tweeted Sunday. "Our society needs to collectively wake up and stand against the lack of hesitancy to kill or attempt to kill those who protect this country from chaos and disorder," Grand Prairie police chief Steve Dye said Monday. Chicago Police Department's mental health assistance program has more than doubled its contacts with officers and their families since 2013. The department has hired 2,350 officers, but the net gain hit the stated goal of about 970 officers.

Claim: "Women in Oregon are paid 79 cents for every dollar paid to men. If the wage gap was eliminated, a working woman in Oregon would have enough money for 2,877 gallons of gas, 72 more weeks of food for her family or nearly 12 more months of rent."
Evidence Summary: We are seventh-grade students of Pope John XXIII School in Evanston. We understand that many jobs pay men more than they pay women for the same work. Since we are all created equal, shouldn’t we be treated equally? We hope to spread the word so that we can fix this injustice. — Charlene Solis and Kylie Titzer, Evanston, Illinois..Capitalism will not survive unless its leaders and advocates get a sense of what they’ve lost, a set of basic moral values.

Claim: "Ive gotten to see the commercials that they did on you. And Ive gotten to see some of the most vicious commercials Ive ever seen of Michelle Obama talking about you, Hillary."
Evidence Summary: "I'm going to fight for other people’s kids as hard as I would fight for my own,” she said. “I’m not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner.” “A lot of women don’t like the negative campaigning. They don't like the aggressiveness of it," she said of Republicans' focus on her past.

Claim: "For every dollar a county gets in taxes from new development, it costs us 40 to 50 percent more to provide services."
Evidence Summary: Baron: Village should live within its means and be smarter with expenses. “Taxing bodies are allowed to ask for more than [they need] by the state, including the new developments,” Baron said. Village represents about 17 percent of our tax levy. We could slash village government by one-third and only impact taxes by about 5 percent, he said. "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes," said Baron.

Claim: "For anybody whos trying to cross the street and has seen those signs that say you have to stop when pedestrians are in the crosswalk, that was a bill that I passed."
Evidence Summary: "We've got to try," he said. "We just keeping seeing these terrible situations (on the roads). This just keeps going on. All we can do is put the legislation out there and do the best we can to get it passed. It at least opens up the discussion."“Not just the people who aren’t getting paychecks but also the businesses being hamstrung by this shutdown, so the government really needs to get together and work this out”

Claim: "One thousand people a day are moving to Texas, which means there will be 15 million more people over the next 25 years."
Evidence Summary: Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000 people. The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015. “There are slightly fewer births this year than last year,” Lila Valencia, a senior demographer with the Texas Demographic center, told the Austin American-Statesman.

Claim: "Since June 2009, about 48 percent of all the jobs created in America were in Texas."
Evidence Summary: The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015. “There are slightly fewer births this year than last year,” Lila Valencia, a senior demographer with the Texas Demographic center, told the Austin American-Statesman. In percentage terms, Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each.

Claim: "Its just been announced that the residents of Florida are going to experience a massive, double-digit premium hike."
Evidence Summary: Some insurers could outright refuse to insure homes in wildfire-prone areas. Lawmakers recently let PG&E raise rates to cover the costs of the 2017 wildfires, but they balked at repeating that after the vastly more expensive disasters of 2018. Florida is considered by many scientists as ground zero for climate change. The Everglades are considered to be the most vulnerable part of the U.S. to hurricanes and other natural disasters. The state has been hit hard by the effects of climate change in recent years.

Claim: "For a young man or woman who is entering the ninth grade in Newark this year, they have a 29 percent graduation rate."
Evidence Summary: The Tribune’s reliance on “graduation rates’ as a metric for success conflates ‘graduation rate’ with degree attainment. The editorial essentially argues that CSU does not matter. This metric fails to consider transfer students, part-time students, or students who first obtain degrees from community colleges. These statements are false, insulting to the thriving student body, and harmful to past, current and future students’ educational and career endeavors.“None of our students were getting that exposure,” Norrell said.

Claim: "The federal government owns 30 percent of the land in the 50 states, or about 650 million acres."
Evidence Summary: California has already committed $1bn over a five-year period for a forest management plan. 57 percent of California's 33 million acres of forest are under federal control. When fires erupt on federal lands and spread into communities, states are largely responsible for financing the clean-up, unless there’s an official emergency declaration. “Our significant state-level efforts will not be as effective without a similar commitment to increased wildland management by you, our federal partners,” the letter reads.

Claim: "Because the EPA closed a lead smelter in Missouri, all lead for bullets will have to come from overseas!"
Evidence Summary: Half of all U.S. students go to schools in states that do not even bother to have programs for testing drinking water for lead, a new study finds. Just 12 states have usable programs for lead testing in schools, plus Washington, D.C. Many schools across the country have too much lead in their tap water, but most are not even testing for it, according to new research. The government shutdown has suspended federal cleanups at Superfund sites around the nation and forced the cancellation of public hearings.

Claim: "Ken Hodges badly botched this investigation and, as a result, justice wasnt done in this case."
Evidence Summary: Jason Van Dyke was sentenced to six years, nine months in prison for the murder of Laquan McDonald. The judge dismissed the charge that officers lied and conspired in order to justify the shooting as “speculation.” The police stories don’t line up with what we can all see in that remarkably vivid dashcam video, sure, but memories of witnesses are not infallible. "How can we expect a fox to investigate another fox over a chicken killing?" asks a social justice activist.

Claim: "Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders have the identical position on health care, which is they want to put the government in charge of you and your doctor."
Evidence Summary: ‘This is the new theme, for two years until the Wall is finished (under construction now), of the Republican Party. Use it and pray!’ Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. Two minutes later, the president tweeted: ‘BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!” ‘Americans like the idea of ‘Medicare-for-all,’ but support flips to disapproval if it would result in higher taxes or longer waits for care.’

Claim: "In our community college system (state) cuts have reduced funding per student by $1,908."
Evidence Summary: Some school leaders have complained about increased costs they've been forced to cover. State fiscal analysts project tax revenues will grow by about 2.5 percent each year for the new two-year budget starting in July. Department of Child Services is seeking about two-thirds of that money to keep paying for hundreds of new child welfare caseworkers added over the last few years. The two sides had bargained deep Monday night, into Tuesday morning, and talks had only ceased around 6 a.m. on Tuesday morning.

Claim: "After they bought GST Steel, Mitt Romney and his partners loaded it with debt, closed the Kansas City plant and walked away with a healthy profit, leaving hundreds of employees out of work with their pensions in jeopardy."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote an op-ed criticizing President Trump in The Washington Post. The former Republican presidential candidate said he was pleased with some of the president's policies. But he also said he had disagreements with other decisions, such as his stance on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and broad-based tariffs. Romney also predicted that Trump’s economic ideas would be a disaster for the country, and would “lead entrepreneurs and businesses of all stripes to flee America.”

Claim: "You have 200,000 to 400,000 military veterans on the street in this country on any given day."
Evidence Summary: “A lot of V.S.O.s have talked to me about the communication within the V.A.,” Senator Jon Tester of Montana, the ranking Democrat on the Senate veterans committee. “What I have done in my short time is actually open the aperture to the table at the Department of Veterans Affairs to bring in veterans who are not traditionally part of the system,” Wilkie said. The shifts, while perhaps inevitable, leave some worrying that the hard work of pressing for the complicated and expensive health care needs will lack a generation of new leaders.

Claim: "In renewable and advanced energy manufacturing projects, Ohio now ranks first among the 50 states."
Evidence Summary: America’s abundant natural gas and oil are creating jobs, supporting communities and the economy. With smart trade, infrastructure and regulatory policies, Generation Energy is poised to accelerate U.S. energy leadership. See how we’re doing it and join us at PowerPastImpossible.org . Follow us on Twitter Anna Palmer @apalmerdc, Jake Sherman @JakeSherman and Daniel Lippman @dlippman. Follow Us on Facebook @PowerPastImp impossible and on Twitter @powerpastimpossible.

Claim: "Right now, we only keep 50 percent of Georgia Techs graduates."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education. The 4 out of 10 students who start college and don’t finish in at least six years—some never. Georgia State is one of the rare large public universities whose black, Hispanic and Pell-eligible students have graduated at or above the overall rate of the student body the past four years. Still, even with that improvement, nearly half of Georgia State students still fail to graduate within six years.

Claim: Most funding for tuberculosis research (is) provided by the U.S. National Institutes for Health.
Evidence Summary: The Global Fund has generally been regarded as a success story in how it collects and uses global health funds from governments and other donors. The UK's funding increased by a huge 89% - representing an extra $87m (£67m) - in the latest year tracked. But some other public health operations are vulnerable because of complicated funding streams. The Food and Drug Administration receives significant funding for its food safety operations through the Department of Agriculture. The USDA provided an estimated $2.9 billion last year to the FDA for these oversight efforts.

Claim: "An amazing 5,400 jobs were lost in the first 12 months of the (smoking) bans implementation in Ohios hospitality industry alone."
Evidence Summary: The World Bank, World Health Organization and US National Bureau of Economic Research all agree increasing tobacco taxes reduces smoking. The US surgeon general, in a report which marked 50 years since it declared smoking causes lung cancer, described taxes as “one of the most powerful interventions we can make to prevent smoking and reduce prevalence” Clean indoor air laws ban smoking inside, because secondhand smoke can cause smoking-related illnesses. But strict laws on selling vape products to underage kids can reduce the number of teens who try e-cigarettes.

Claim: "Says Mexico doesnt have birthright citizenship, and Americans are the only ones to have it."
Evidence Summary: On Saturday, President Trump delivered a unifying statement in reaction to a naturalization ceremony in which he had participated that day. The speech described U.S. citizenship as having “no distinctions or race or class or gender or background,” adding, “we are all equal” and “one team.” To Sisa, the words were meaningless. “If anything, this sounds completely hypocritical,’ she said in response. ‘His actions are not matching his speech. We say no to building a wall and yes to building community.’

Claim: After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law their mortality rate went down...it saved lives.
Evidence Summary: In New York City, a new ordinance bans pharmacies from selling cigarettes and other tobacco products. Massachusetts has raised the minimum age to buy tobacco products from 18 to 21. Nonbinary people can now list their gender as ‘X’ on birth certificates in New York. New Jersey requires all residents to have health insurance; California’s new governor has proposed further action on health care, including a New Jersey-style state-level mandate. The larger lesson is to avoid despair. Changing laws is hard work, often involving years of frustration.

Claim: "The Orange County, Florida, school board voted to make it impossible for a student to receive a grade below 50."
Evidence Summary: The 15-member Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Commission's 446-page report details what members believe happened before, during and after the Feb. 14 shooting. The report, which the commission sent to Gov. Rick Scott, includes a controversial proposal that teachers who volunteer and undergo training be allowed to carry guns. The Hinsdale High School District 86 Board in 2013 carelessly passed a zero tax levy. That fiscally irresponsible decision has drained the school operating budget of a cumulative $5.6 million and counting.

Claim: "In 2012, Connie Mack missed 178 votes, one of the worst voting records in Congress."
Evidence Summary: The new Congress has been seated for nearly two weeks – but North Carolina’s 9th district still hasn’t sent a representative to Capitol Hill. Local residents shuffled and cut stacks of ballots like gigantic playing cards and read off the votes in the selected races while VSTOP representatives typed in the data. Republican Mark Harris led Democrat Dan McCready by little more than 900 votes after the midterm elections, but accusations of voter fraud and irregularities have thrown the election into a chaotic legal battle.

Claim: "Senator Obama's relatives and friends say he has been talking about running for president for at least the last 15 years, a campaign spokesman said."
Evidence Summary: The 76-year-old former vice president, who leads the field in initial national and Iowa polls, has not yet told his allies that he has decided to run. But he has indicated that he is leaning toward running and will most likely make a decision within the next two weeks, according to Democrats within and beyond his inner circle who have spoken to him recently. Mr. Biden’s decision will not be final until he says it for himself, noting that family considerations are central.

Claim: "Thats legal: If you find out about somebody elses salary even if youre doing exactly the same job, you can be retaliated against, including being fired, in most places."
Evidence Summary: Maya Clark says her head of department apologised and offered to raise her salary, but not enough to close the pay gap. "The whole ordeal left me feeling completely devalued and taken advantage of," she says. "Unless academic salaries become more transparent, many of us will have no choice but to question whether we are being paid fairly," says Clark. "I don't think anyone's paying attention to the plight of the contractors," she continued. "Until then, the burden is on us to find out"

Claim: "If President Obama signs the Copenhagen climate change treaty, he ""will sign your freedom, your democracy, and your prosperity away forever and neither you nor any subsequent government you may elect would have any power whatsoever to take it back again."""
Evidence Summary: The U.N. has said that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change. Bush promised to lead a determined global response to climate change, but balked. The climate can that he and others kicked forward 30 years ago is still clanking through the corridors of global conferences. Each fraction of a degree of global heating that can be prevented will save lives, species and money, writes Julian Zelizer. The midterm elections showed that politicians do have a path forward with American voters on climate, he says.

Claim: "If Congress fails to act, the Obama administration intends to give away control of the internet to an international body akin to the United Nations."
Evidence Summary: Rep. David Cicilline, D-R.I., is a new ranking member of the antitrust subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee. He is charged with overseeing antitrust issues that come before the House and evaluating the effects of monopoly power on the economy. He says: “Our job is to figure out the responsible way to regulate these large platforms so that we are promoting competition, protecting privacy and making them responsible stewards of lots and lots of data” The internet has become centralized in countries where the government has the buildout of infrastructure and there is little competition for internet services.

Claim: "During Lyndon B. Johnsons first 20 years in Congress, he opposed every civil rights measure that came up for a vote."
Evidence Summary: On Mansfield’s watch that the Senate passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, enacted Medicare, forced the resignation of Nixon without conviction. McConnell first arrived in the Senate in what was arguably the most momentous year of the Mansfield era, 1964, as an intern for John Sherman Cooper. An irate Congress responded by passing the nation's first federal civil rights legislation, over Johnson's veto, and approving the 14th Amendment guaranteeing equal protection under the law. Within a decade of his departure from the White House, the vile aspiration for which he had fought had triumphed.

Claim: "Two years ago, the longest serving leader of the California republic, Jerry Brown, boldly declared in China that California is a separate nation."
Evidence Summary: Jerry Brown is riding a wave of attention that will disappear as surely as his state trooper escort. Brown, who served as California’s 34th governor and its 39th, has long counseled against overexposure. Brown is using his remaining days to offer warnings about the future of California and the planet. He arrived eight years ago to a $26 billion deficit, and is leaving a $14 billion surplus.“We will be ‘California for all,’” he promised. “We won’t be divided between rural, urban, north, south, coastal and inline”

Claim: "By voting for Obamacare, Sen. Kay Hagan voted to kill the equivalent of 2.5 million jobs."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand has supported legislation that would provide all unaccompanied immigrant children with a lawyer in court. Critics point out that before becoming a senator in 2009, she opposed any form of amnesty for undocumented immigrants. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) dismissed Trump’s DACA offer as a “non-starter” Earlier this month Coulter told Lou Dobbs on Fox Business that she would rather deport Dreamers than MS-13 gang members. The Democrat said she was working as a waitress and bartender when she decided to run for Congress.

Claim: "The Keystone oil pipeline would employ 20,000 people in the United States."
Evidence Summary: The all other pipeline transportation industry includes the transportation of any product other than crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum. The industry is tied to the construction sector and, as a result, tends to grow in tandem with economic growth. As the U.S. GDP grew from 2008 to 2017 in the wake of the Great Recession, employment in the industry grew by 54.3 percent. The White House is considering executive orders that would weaken states’ power to block energy projects and ease the construction of new pipelines.

Claim: "Barack Obama, right now, No. 1, over seven years has dramatically degraded our military."
Evidence Summary: "Our troops have done all we have asked them to do and more," then-Sen. Obama once said. "No amount of American soldiers can solve the political differences at the heart of somebody else's civil war, nor settle the grievances in the hearts of the combatants," he added. "As commander-in-chief, I have determined that it is in our vital national interest to send an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan," President Obama said. “General” McChrystal got fired like a dog by Obama. Last assignment a total bust. Known for big, dumb mouth.

Claim: "Says the Club for Growth tries to defeat Republicans, and that its president called Nancy Pelosi the person I respect the most in Washington."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi's favorability rating is up 13% among Democrats since the midterms (59% to 72%) in Civiqs polls, with virtually no shift among Republicans. Pelosi will likely continue to face challenges from conservatives who are empowering colleagues to press for progressive change. Abby Huntsman said Pelosi has an important role in getting the party to agree on a 2020 presidential candidate that can relate to all Americans. "She's got a real opportunity, Nancy Pelosi, now in the leadership position... if I were her I would learn something from Republicans," she said.

Claim: "Says if you are on your bike in a crosswalk, all you have to do is dip your wheel into the road and cars must legally stop."
Evidence Summary: One-fifth of people 65 and older do not drive, which often leaves walking as the main way of getting around. Almost half of respondents to an AARP survey of people 50 and older said that they cannot safely cross the main roads in their neighborhoods. AARP is working to find innovative solutions to keep pedestrians safe and our communities more livable by aligning with Vision Zero. It is also important that community leaders adopt policies that ensure our streets are designed for all who use them — pedestrians, bicyclists, motorists and public transportation users.

Claim: "The firefighters, the policemen and others who supported (Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker) in his election bid ... dont have to worry about their collective bargaining rights."
Evidence Summary: Mandel’s attorney argues the union card is unenforceable in the wake of the Supreme Court decision. The Janus ruling, hailed as a political victory for Gov. Bruce Rauner, has far-reaching implications for some two dozen states nationwide, including Illinois. In late 2018, a collective bargaining unit of six field supervisors in west suburban Naperville’S Public Works Department lost its union representation after half its membership used Janus rights to opt out of paying dues.

Claim: "The lifespan of the average American is less than that of people in nations that spend far less (on health care). ... To put it bluntly, we spend more and die sooner."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. We’re deeply invested in the myth that medicine has drastically increased the human lifespan. But doctors can’t cure many chronic diseases, but they can keep people dying longer.ĉĉ “Do you know what the leading causes of death in the U.S. are?” he replied.

Claim: "Barack Obama ""said in 2004 there was no difference between (Obama) and George Bush on the war."""
Evidence Summary: Former President Barack Obama said in 2009 that the U.S. should not start new wars in the Middle East. President Donald Trump is considering declaring a national emergency to spend money on a border wall. Both believe the United States should avoid starting new wars and try to get out of old ones, writes CNN's John Sutter. Sutter: Obama and Trump are both wrong about the need for new wars, but they're also wrong on the need to end old ones and get rid of terrorists.

Claim: "I watched in Jersey City, N.J., where thousands and thousands of people were cheering as the World Trade Center collapsed."
Evidence Summary: A young boy who had his bar mitzvah also on October 27 in another synagogue felt he needed to do something. He took some money that was gifted to him and sent a donation to our synagogue as his way of connecting with us and sharing in his sorrow and at hoping for a brighter future. At dawn, another explosion and gunfire were heard. Scores of people were rushed to safety in the early morning hours. “To God be the Glory. Over 50 people in my group,” one survivor said.

Claim: "On a single night in January 2015, state and local planning agencies in Rhode Island reported the following estimates of homelessness 107 veterans were homeless."
Evidence Summary: The report said the coming boom in aging homeless people stems from younger, less educated baby boomers who faced economic challenges in their youth. Philadelphia's homeless shelters also are struggling with an influx of older homeless people who have complex medical problems the shelters are not designed and staffed to handle. New York spends an average of $25,000 on homeless people age 55 to 59, a figure that rises to more than $28,000 in people aged 70 and up. The national population of people 65 or older experiencing homelessness is estimated to grow from 40,000 to 106,000 by 2030.

Claim: "Between Austin, San Antonio, Houston and Dallas over 8,000 same-sex couples are raising children."
Evidence Summary: Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000 people. The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015. “There are slightly fewer births this year than last year,” Lila Valencia, a senior demographer with the Texas Demographic center, said. The impact of Hurricane Harvey could have made people move away or delay birth.

Claim: "Some Republicans who voted against the stimulus ""have been all too happy to claim credit for Recovery Act projects and the jobs those projects have produced. They come to the ribbon cuttings."""
Evidence Summary: Last year, Republicans were in charge of both chambers of Congress and the presidency. Yet Oct. 1 rolled around without a budget in place for roughly a quarter of the federal government. The bill to ensure workers receive back pay passed 411-7. All those who opposed it were Republicans. The last time we faced a severe recession after years of deficit fear-mongering, the package was far too small and austerity measures were implemented too quickly. We’re still living with the consequences: lower than expected pay growth.

Claim: Theres nothing in the [RhodeMap RI] plan that takes away local government control and local zoning control.
Evidence Summary: A majority of the 68 municipalities that were to submit affordable housing plans in 2015 did not do so, with many pointing to their home rule standing. Deerfield officials have discussed formalizing the village’s approach to affordable housing. IHDA acknowledges the law may have minimal impact in practice on built-out communities, but is intended to encourage communities as they grow and redevelop to include moderately-priced housing for people who work in, and serve the community. “We’ve been working from a playbook in the ‘50s and ‘60s. This will lead the way for a new zoning code,” Van Dyk said.

Claim: "More than 80 percent of Georgians dont support legislation to ease gun restrictions in houses of worship, in bars and on campuses."
Evidence Summary: Current law requires only federally licensed gun dealers to perform background checks. Gun safety advocates say the law is riddled with loopholes that allow felons, domestic abusers and others to purchase guns. Public opinion polls routinely find that overwhelming majorities of American voters support requiring background checks for all gun buyers. “Successful legislative change follows cultural change,” said Emily Giffords, whose son was killed in the Parkland, Florida, school shooting last year. "I have never doubted that the majority of people who go through the trouble of obtaining a license to carry a firearm in Illinois are decent and responsible," she said.

Claim: "The Virginia population increased by just 8 percent from 2005 to 2015, but the per capita spending in the budget increased by a whopping 38 percent."
Evidence Summary: Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product, according to the Virginia Economic Development Partnership, but it ranks 26th in income equality. Texas topped the list, adding nearly 380,000 people last year – as if the state had added another city the size of Arlington. Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000. The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015.

Claim: "Without Westside MAX, wed need to add 2.9 lanes to the Sunset Highway."
Evidence Summary: There’s no doubt that the project, as well as the rest of the 760-acre North Branch Industrial Corridor revamp, can become an economic turbocharge for the North Side. But from the start, aspects of the proposal have made North Siders wary, if not downright nervous. How will the infusion of 5,000 new households, 23,000 jobs and 12 million square feet of residential, retail, hotel and office space be managed? And with all of that glass and steel rising up, will there be enough parkland for neighborhoods already saddled with a dearth of open space?

Claim: "Elena Kagan is a New York City radical, Marxist lawyer through and through."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) was appointed to a federal appeals court on Monday. She was a federal judge for 10 years after taking 10 years out to raise her five children. She has been working as a partner at the firm of Cornell Anderson LLC in Waukegan,specializing in private and family law practice. She is a current member of several bar associations, including the Illinois State Bar Association, the Lake County Bar Association and the Jefferson Inns of Court.

Claim: Wendy Davis has already taken more $ from teacher unions than the past 3 Democrat gubernatorial candidates combined.
Evidence Summary: Being Latino doesn’t guarantee a candidate the Hispanic vote. But research has shown Latino candidates can spur more Hispanic engagement if they are considered to be paying attention to Latino voter concerns. Angle foresees a nomination up for grabs when March 6 rolls around “and the candidates who fail to communicate effectively with Latino voters will do so at their peril.” The large Hispanic electorate voting early could also force a change in how candidates reach out to Latinos. Some Democrats who want to diminish the clout of teachers unions, like former Education Secretary Arne Duncan, actually back the city’s school district against the union.

Claim: "Says that when Michelle Fields found out that there was a security camera, and that they had her on tape, all of a sudden that story changed."
Evidence Summary: Stormy Daniels has filed a federal lawsuit against the Ohio police officers who arrested her at a strip club last summer. She is accusing them of engaging in a conspiracy to protect President Donald Trump. The charges, three misdemeanor sex offenses for allegedly inappropriately touching a female undercover officer, were dropped within hours. The Cincinnati NAACP said it was investigating the matter and has called for Barnette to resign or be terminated. He is heard saying, "That n****r slapped me in the face!" The woman responds, "What the f*** did you just say?"

Claim: "Says Texas is 1st in business climate, 49th in education."
Evidence Summary: In percentage terms, Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. Residents recall the influx of media outsiders with disdain. “They assume we’re a bunch of uneducated hillbillies, without actually learning who we are and what our community is about,” says Lindy Thompson, owner of the Sage Matt cafe. A December report issued by the state of Texas about the need to "future-proof" the state from worsening natural disasters never directly mentions climate change.

Claim: "Says McCain ""voted to let governments charge rape victims"" for forensic exams."
Evidence Summary: It matters what senators do and what they demand, much more so than what they tweet. This is not, however, the first time Trump has used the epidemic of sexual assault, or those who have been forced to endure it, for his own political gain. The lesson here is that sexual violence against women is nothing more than a political bargaining chip. If Trump truly cared about the sexual violence immigrant women face he would make it easier for those women to seek safety in the United States. If overlooking accusations of pedophilia can keep a Senate seat red, then Trump is willing to disregard Leigh Corfman, Wendy Miller, Debbie Wesson Gibson, Gloria Thacker Deason, Beverly Young Nelson, Tina Johnson, Gena Richardson and Becky Gray.

Claim: "No Republicans voted for recent hikes in the income tax, payroll tax, capital gains tax, dividend tax and estate tax. These taxes were all passed under Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: Republican messaging on taxes peaked in mid-October, with a majority of ads mentioning the topic in some way. But only about one-third of GOP ads during the rest of the campaign mentioned taxes. Of the GOP ads that referred to taxes, 40 percent also mentioned Pelosi, and 35 percent also raised the subject of health care – often suggesting Democrats would raise taxes to pay for a universal health care system. Many ads in which Republicans do mention taxes didn’t focus on the tax legislation they passed in 2017, which provided a steep tax cut for corporations.

Claim: "When Trump wanted to turn a taxpayer-owned building into an $800 anight hotel, (Congressman Jeff Denham, R-CA) helped broker the deal and bragged about it."
Evidence Summary: Lobbyists, conservative allies and foreign officials frequently hold events at the Trump hotel. It raises questions about whether they are using the president's business as a way of currying favor with his administration. A Washington Post story published Wednesday found that T-Mobile booked several rooms at the hotel for its top officials as they were seeking Trump administration approval of its $26 billion merger with Sprint. The White House told “60 Minutes” they “are completely baseless,” adding that it “cannot comment further about ongoing litigation.”

Claim: "In New York City, an entry level janitor gets paid twice as much as an entry level teacher."
Evidence Summary: For workers with a high school education or less, the urban wage premium has virtually vanished. Women's salaries are 23 percent less than men’s salaries, or 77 percent of what men get paid, for the same job. In San Francisco, the starting salary for a credentialed teacher is $55,461. Nearly four in 10 teachers say they had worked a second job over the past year to make ends meet. Almost three in 10 say they ran up debt during that time.

Claim: "Says we will pay the new chancellor a basic salary of nearly $300,000 a year ... an amount that does not include the costs of this public employees benefits, perks and living expenses for a lavish house, an upscale car, a spending allowance, and fine dining almost every day on the taxpayer dollar."
Evidence Summary: J.B. Pritzker’s incoming chief of staff Anne Caprara will be paid a salary of $298,000 — $148,000 in state money and $150,000 more from East Jackson Street LLC. The move means some aides will have lower taxpayer-funded salaries than Gov. Bruce Rauner's. The transition team says the supplemental income will be reported on ethics forms. Indiana Gov. Eric Holcomb proposed just a 2 percent funding increase for public schools each of the next two years. The union is demanding $800 million toward new staff, versus the district's offer of $130 million.

Claim: "The top 1 percent of income earners pay 40 percent of all state income taxes, and those at the bottom pay little or nothing."
Evidence Summary: A poll taken last weekend by The Hill-HarrisX found 59 percent support for taking income over $10 million at 70 percent. A 2017 Reuters-Ipsos poll found 76 percent of respondents agreeing with the proposition that “the wealthiest Americans should pay higher tax rates” In Illinois, where newly elected Gov. J.B. Pritzker has promised to work to overturn the state constitutional ban on graduated state income tax rates, 72 percent gave a thumbs-up to the idea of graduated income taxes.

Claim: "The Federal Register - which houses all Washington regulations - is 34,000 pages in length and weighs in at more than 340 pounds."
Evidence Summary: The federal executive bureaucracy is by nature a lumbering beast. But under pressure from Trump’s itchy Twitter finger, agencies are producing flimsy administrative records that fail to pass muster in federal court. As a result, the Trump era has seen a significant uptick in successful Administrative Procedure Act claims levied against the government. The fate of any Trump emergency proposal won’t likely be determined on these grounds, but these cases demonstrate just how much self-inflicted harm Trump has done with decisions like these.

Claim: "Says that like Todd Akin, all Texas Republicans in U.S. House cosponsored a bill that attempts to distinguish between forcible rape and other sexual assaults."
Evidence Summary: Several hate crime bills have been filed in the opening days of the Indiana legislative session, with most including specific lists of protected traits. A bill sponsored by Republican Rep. Tony Cook of Cicero covers crimes motivated by the victim’s age, race, religion, ethnicity, color, disability, gender, gender identity, national origin, sexual orientation, ancestry and status of being a law enforcement officer or military member. But one filed by Republican House Majority Caucus Chairman Greg Steuerwald of Danville includes no such list while allowing a judge to consider the accused person's bias.

Claim: "If you look at the states where soccer is most popular, theyre overwhelmingly blue states, and the states where soccer is least popular are red states."
Evidence Summary: “When people tell me I can’t do something, it just motivates me even more,” she says in the ad. The new commercial aims to distance her from the boys club that’s defined Chicago politics. It comes as opponents in the crowded mayor's race link her to longtime mentor and 50-year Ald. George GoeHL. “Believe it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about,’ she says.

Claim: "Says at the state level were spending more on tax expenditures than we are on public safety, health care and education combined."
Evidence Summary: The union and Mr. Beutner agreed that the state should spend more on public schools. But they are locked in a bitter fight over how the district should use the money it already has. And many observers say that an agreement between the union and the district will ultimately require more money from Mr. Newsom’s budget. “We need $7 billion to completely fund the schools, but unfortunately we can’t get it all at once,” Kifowit said.

Claim: "In head-to-head polls for the general election, I beat Hillary Clinton by more than anybody, by 11 points."
Evidence Summary: Trump: "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner" Trump misstates the Electoral College vote in his 2016 presidential race against Democrat Hillary Clinton. Trump dismissed the "whole Russia thing" as a "terrible hoax" Trump said he won in 2016 because he "was a better candidate than Hillary Clinton," not because of collusion with Russian efforts to undermine her campaign. "Anybody could have listened to that meeting, that meeting is up for grabs," Trump said.

Claim: Says former U.S. Rep. Carol Shea-Porter refused to host town hall meetings during her time in Congress.
Evidence Summary: The first town hall will take place on Jan. 24, according to a schedule posted Monday to King’s congressional website. The town hall tour is a departure for King, who has come under criticism for not spending enough time in his district. In 2017 he told the Sioux City Journal that he would not be holding in-person town halls because “in this climate, to advertise town hall meetings, just so that protesters have a forum, just doesn’t make a lot of sense to me”

Claim: "Amiddle-class family donates $1 to charity, they get 15 cents off their income tax. Bill Gates donates $1 to charity, he takes 35 cents off his income tax."
Evidence Summary: In wealthy countries, average top personal income tax rates fell from 62 percent in 1970 to 38 percent in 2013. Oxfam calls for a new economic model, a ‘human economy’ where tax systems for corporations and the super-rich are overhauled to eliminate tax avoidance and evasion. This money would then be plowed into providing universal public services like education and healthcare as key to tackling inequality and poverty. “Inequality is not inevitable,” the report says, “it’s a political choice.”

Claim: "Marco Rubio is a ""Miami lobbyist."""
Evidence Summary: Embattled U.S. Rep.-elect Ross Spano had more than $75,000 in contributions flagged by federal elections officials for potentially insufficient reporting. The campaign cash was bundled by Club for Growth, a conservative special-interest group that often funnels small-dollar contributions to candidates it supports. Ron DeSantis will be sworn in as Florida’s 46th governor on Tuesday with voters in the nation's third most populous state still unsure exactly what they will be getting. The self-styled ‘pitbull Trump defender’ whose most infamous campaign ad featured him reading the Trump book The Art of the Deal as a bedside story to his infant son has been forced to follow a more moderate path.

Claim: "Georgia is one of seven states to lose jobs in 2011 and has lost 8,200 jobs so far."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The monthly jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. “If you can’t succeed in an environment like this, a strong economy, it’s a problem.” —Craig Johnson, president of retail analysts Customer Growth Partners.

Claim: "Stabilizing the recent financial crisis will cost less than 1 percent of GDP, which is less than the 2.5 percent to fix the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s."
Evidence Summary: The obsession with debt is looking foolish even at full employment, says Julian Zelizer. Zelizer: The next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. He says the Fix the Debt fixation (yes, they’re still out there) look even worse than before. The Trump administration quietly warned that Social Security may have to be slashed 21 percent come 2034, Zelizer says. But given how our squabbling politicians can’t cooperate on much, who’s to say they will be able to fix it?

Claim: The government -- not the armed forces -- is stockpiling hundreds of millions of rounds of ammunition for domestic use.
Evidence Summary: The ATF generally has a pro-law enforcement orientation and tends to be “extremely suspicious” of efforts to increase civilian firepower. It’s harder to predict how President Donald Trump might approach the issue. The big increase in the defense appropriations for fiscal 2019 is almost all going... to the military. The administration fishing around various federal accounts is beginning to tick off lawmakers. "I am opposed to using national defense funds for anything else," said Rep. Mac Thornberry, R-Texas, the top Republican on the House Armed Services Committee.

Claim: "Even Roger Williams National Memorial in my home state of Rhode Island attracted nearly 51,000 visitors in 2011, with non local visitors adding more than $3.2 million to the local economy."
Evidence Summary: The King Center said the birth home would still be closed because the tours were held by government employees. Last year, visitors to national parks spent over $15 billion in gateway communities around the country. The national park designation also carries more prestige, which would bring more tourists, jobs and revenue. Studies show turning White Sands into a national park could mean an extra 100,000 visitors a year, an economic windfall up to $7.5 million for the region. The monument lies within the White Sands Missile Range, America's biggest military installation where the first atomic bomb was detonated.

Claim: Do this research watch how much crime picks up if you take away [football].
Evidence Summary: Washington D.C. and Baltimore are the only big cities where the number of murders increased in 2018. Chicago’s crime rate declined 10 percent in 2018 compared to the year before, while crime such as robberies and carjackings also declined – by about 19 percent. As part of an effort to combat the gun crime, the authorities seized 9,500 illegal guns last year, the most in five years. The Brennan Center for Justice estimates the 2018 overall murder rate in the country's 30 biggest cities declined by nearly 6 percent.

Claim: Martin Luther King Jr. was a Republican.
Evidence Summary: Delta Air Lines paid to keep the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historical Park open. Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta held a special service to commemorate the civil rights leader's life. Democrats concluded that presentation of their legislative priorities with a call-and-response appeal to the public faith of the Civil Rights era. The language of faith and morality has often been noticeably absent on the left since the 1980s, when the religious right cemented its political dominance under Reagan and the Catholic Church.

Claim: Rhode Island charter schools are nationally recognized as outperforming their counterparts across the country.
Evidence Summary: David Frum: Studies of Boston charter schools don't prove "clear success of charter schools" Frum says studies didn't include charter schools that failed or weren't run competently. He says reputational damage to charters may already be taking a toll. Frump: No teacher should ever have to scrape by or be forced to take on a second job just to pay the bills. But once you dig into the facts, charters didn’t cause this problem, he says.

Claim: "Every single day in this country, 1,000 people are deported and the vast majority of those people that are deported arent criminals."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post offered a series of “fact checks” following President Trump’s primetime address from the Oval Office on border security. One of them raised eyebrows, as it complained the president's crime stats were too comprehensive. This was the line in question from the president, as he pushed for a border wall: “In the last two years, ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records including those charged or convicted of 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes, and 4,000 violent killings.”

Claim: "When Roy Barnes was governor, ""Georgia created 235,000 jobs."""
Evidence Summary: Health care and education services added 82,000 jobs in December, the biggest jump since February 2012. Restaurants and drinking placed posted a net gain of 40,700 jobs. Builders added 38,000 construction jobs, while manufacturers increased their payrolls by 32,000 workers. Businesses are still searching for more workers. The employment site Glassdoor found that job postings have risen 17 percent in the past year to 6.7 million. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion.

Claim: "While Americans pray for Paris, the government has acted on mandatory national vaccinations."
Evidence Summary: The World Health Organization has ranked vaccine hesitancy as one of the top 10 health threats in the world for 2019. The percentage of children who are unvaccinated has quadrupled since 2001, the CDC says. More than 100,000 American infants and toddlers have received no vaccines whatsoever, and millions more have received only some crucial shots. The anti-vaxxers, as they are colloquially known, have hundreds of websites promoting their message, a roster of tech- and media-savvy influencers.

Claim: "Were only spending 2 percent of our GDP on our infrastructure, while China and India are spending 10 percent of their GDP reinvesting back into their country."
Evidence Summary: China has been rethinking two aspects of the initiative: how it decides on overseas spending, and how the initiative is presented to overseas audiences. There have sometimes been criticisms on Chinese social media, quickly deleted by censors, that Beijing was spending money on overseas development that would be better spent at home. In September, Mr. Xi promised a further $60 billion for projects in African countries, but he made a point of saying that China would not pay for what he called vanity projects."But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to," Xiao Yaqing said.

Claim: "The middle class can be defined to include those with income between roughly $20,000 and $60,000."
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households has declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. America’s middle class is in decline because middle class American families are declining. A major driver of family collapse, the one nobody ever talks about for some reason, is simple economics. An enormous amount of wealth has been generated, but so has enormous inequality. But for everyone else, that dream is dying. It's not middle class, it's not wealthy, it is not middle-class.

Claim: "By the end of this decade, the interest we owe on our debt could rise to nearly $1 trillion."
Evidence Summary: The federal government has a lot of debt right now — about twice as much, relative to GDP, as there was before the last recession. Entitlements will only get more expensive, especially as baby boomers get older and go on Medicare. Interest payments alone could top spending on defense, Medicaid or children’s programs — not to mention crowding out spending on god knows how many other things. The Trump administration quietly warned that Social Security may have to be slashed 21 percent come 2034. That seems far off, but given how our squabbling politicians can’t cooperate on much, who’ll be able to fix this ticking bomb?

Claim: Odd fact for odd draft: No. 2 overall pick will earn more than the No. 1 pick due to no state tax in Florida. So 2 not so bad.
Evidence Summary: The $8 billion deal valuation includes the company’s shares outstanding as well as stock options. Of the $493 million in debt being wiped out, the greatest share comes from borrowers in Florida, which will get $68 million in relief. The debt stems from institutional loans the company issued to students. Other terms of the deal require the company to pay $5 million to states to cover the cost of their investigations, and the company will now be required to give all prospective students a single-page disclosure.

Claim: "One industry in America has increased its employment base in the last four years by 176,000 people: the United States government."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Hiring spikes are often indicative of major cultural or technological shifts. The aging baby boomer generation, the proliferation of high-speed internet access, and the alcoholic beverage preferences of the millennial generation all help explain hiring surges.

Claim: "In 1947, when I was born, there were about 450,000 lions. In the mid-70s, when my kids were born, there were about 100,000. Today, there are less than 30,000."
Evidence Summary: A government inspector counted 16 lions among 85 total animals in 2018. Last winter, a record-low 512 wild winter steelhead completed the journey past the Willamette Falls. Hunted for their thick fur, the mammals' numbers dropped dramatically in the 1960s. They rebounded from 30,000 in the late 1960s to about 300,000 today because of the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act.“Growth is going to come to an end, either suddenly or in a controlled way,” scientists say.

Claim: "Says that in some Texas communities, our unemployment rate is still at 10 and 20 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. But not everybody has a job who wants or needs one.

Claim: "Thousands of politicians from across Ohio along with their relatives, employees and friends are still eligible to serve on the proposed redistricting commission."
Evidence Summary: More than 275,000 inactive Ohio voters are about to get their final opportunity to keep from dropping off the rolls. Ohio's procedure for maintaining its voter rolls is considered one of the most stringent in the nation. "Sadly, the appalling conduct we have witnessed in Florida, Georgia and too many other places during this election has once again underscored the absolute necessity of this subcommittee’s establishment in the first place," Pelosi said in November. The subcommittee plans to team up for hearings with the House Judiciary and Homeland Security committees.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney is committed to overturning Roe vs. Wade, and he supports such amendments that define a life as beginning at the moment of conception."
Evidence Summary: Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. So was Romney, as he moved from running for office in liberal Massachusetts to establishing his conservative bona fides with national Republicans. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. The win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump.

Claim: "Says Sierra Club sued him to stop oil and gas activity on Texas coast, but we won and the turtles are fine."
Evidence Summary: Robert Crosland, a junior high teacher in the small town of Preston, Idaho, caused outrage and made national headlines over the incident in March. Crosland faced six months in jail and a $5,000 fine from the June charge. A six-person jury deliberated for less than 30 minutes after the two-day trial before finding the teacher not guilty. The turtle was eventually euthanized. State officials said it was a non-native species that requires a permit and was deemed an invasive species.

Claim: "If the state turns down money for high-speed rail, it will kill nearly 10,000 permanent Wisconsin jobs."
Evidence Summary: Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker is leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests. Without more prudence in handling the huge budget crisis in Illinois, more and more citizens will move to other states where tax rates are more equitable. With no deal to fund the government on the horizon, an estimated 800,000 federal employees likely won't get paid until late January. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said.

Claim: "In Oregon, 12,808 people were arrested for marijuana-related crimes in 2012."
Evidence Summary: The first four states to have legalized marijuana have seen sharp increases in murders and aggravated assaults since 2013, when recreational legalization began. In November 2018, Michigan became the 10th state to legalize recreational cannabis use; New Jersey and others may soon follow. In a report issued before Sessions’ announcement of a change in federal policy – the effect of which is not yet determined – BDS Analytics forecast that marijuana sales in California alone could total $3.7 billion in 2018 and $5.1 billion in 2019.

Claim: "Under Gov. Mitt Romney, Massachusetts ranked 47th in job creation."
Evidence Summary: The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon.

Claim: "Said U.S. Rep. Jim Marshall, D-Macon, sent nearly $2 billion overseas to build wind turbines and create jobs, mostly in China"
Evidence Summary: The lakefront town of Holland, home to 33,000 people, has long prospered as a center for the production of office furniture and auto parts. In vowing to take a tough line with China, Mr. Trump secured 62 percent of the votes in surrounding Ottawa County. “Even though it’s hurting me, I hope we have the guts to stick it out,” said Tom Sligh, president of Billco Products, which makes cabinets, dressers and other furniture for hotels.

Claim: "The Republican budget plan says that 10 years from now, if youre a 65-year-old whos eligible for Medicare, you should have to pay nearly $6,400 more than you would today."
Evidence Summary: As deficits balloon, GOP leaders suggest curbing the massive Social Security and Medicare programs. But the demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget, and the government projects the number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. The Medicare-for-all plan pushed by Sanders and endorsed by a host of Democratic congressional and presidential hopefuls would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years.

Claim: "Chris Christie cut equal pay for women, calling it senseless bureaucracy."
Evidence Summary: As women pack the halls of power, conservatives convulse in fear at losing their old rubrics of control. Donald Trump is defending his shutdown-slash-tantrum with claims that most of the hundreds of thousands of unpaid federal workers are Democrats. “I’m six days into the term, and you already used all your ammo. So enjoy being exhausted for the next two years while we run train on the progressive agenda,” said Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.

Claim: "According to a recent Congressional Budget Office report, under Obamacare, 7 million people will lose their employer-sponsored insurance."
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Cervical cancer in Africa is fully preventable with basic education, screeningand vaccines."
Evidence Summary: A big gap in care comes from doctors not being able to appropriately assess cancer risk for members of the LGBTQ community. One in five of all parents, including those who had their child vaccinated, believed the jab was likely to cause side-effects. Cervical cancer is still the second leading cause of cancer related death in women from the ages of 20-39. Non-Hispanic blacks have the highest rate of cancer occurrence and death from cancer, while Asian/Pacific Islanders have the lowest.

Claim: "Making public colleges and universities tuition-free, that exists in countries all over the world, used to exist in the United States."
Evidence Summary: There is scant evidence that higher fees have deterred less-advantaged young people. A reintroduction of maintenance grants to the poorest learners gives a powerful message that the government wants these students to go to university. A graduate tax to relieve the sense of debt burden, a grace period on interest rates while studying and a block on early repayment would also help. "We need di goment to start to focus on our education," says Ms Tejuoso. "Public universities dey really really suffer"

Claim: "Today, about 40 percent of guns are purchased without a background check."
Evidence Summary: Gunmakers and dealers gather this week in Las Vegas for the industry's largest annual conference. The industry was facing a so-called "Trump slump," a plummet in sales that happens amid gun rights-friendly administrations. Some of the top priorities for theindustry remain in limbo, and prospects for expanding gun rights are nil for the foreseeable future. Nearly 40,000 Americans were killed with firearms in 2017, the majority of them gun suicides, according to statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Claim: "The Democrats have over 20 field agents to our zero."""
Evidence Summary: The FBI needs to be funded, an exasperated FBI Agents Association President Tom O’Connor lamented. "For FBI Agents, financial security is national security," O'Connor said Tuesday morning. An estimated 5,000 of the bureau’s 35,000 agents, analysts, lawyers and other personnel have been furloughed, limiting support for some surveillance and laboratory operations, he said. The FBI and the rest of the federal government facing the prospect of missing a paycheck Friday.

Claim: Says Nick Rahall voted with Obama 94 percent of the time.
Evidence Summary: "The West Virginia Republican majority in the House has been very supportive of President Trump and his efforts to secure the southern border," Hanna said. Hanna said he joined the GOP because there were "three things the Republicans stood for that the Democrats didn't, and that was God, guns and babies" "My loyalty is done to either party. You know, I'm gonna vote for who I think is talking right at the right time," said Richard Marsh, who voted for Obama then for Trump.

Claim: "In 2011, texting surpassed alcohol as the leading contributing factor in teen driving deaths."
Evidence Summary: In 2016, 37,461 people died in motor vehicle crashes, up from 32,744 in 2014. Distracted driving accounted for 3,450 deaths in 2016, the agency said. Texting, eating, drinking and fidgeting with the radio or navigation are all causes of distracted driving. The lifetime odds of an American dying from a preventable, unintentional injury have gone up over the past 15 years, the National Safety Council says. The council has recommended tackling the epidemic by increasing pain management training for opioid prescribers, making the potentially-lifesaving drug naloxone more widely available.

Claim: "The vast majority of (Syrian) refugees are young, able-bodied men looking for work."
Evidence Summary: Theresa May's government has pledged to resettle 20,000 Syrian refugees by 2020. But a large section of this refugee population is being denied the ability to work to their full potential. A cluster of social enterprises have formed to help address these worrying statistics. Timepeace is a means for refugees to meet up with others in their local area to either teach skills or to learn them. Entrepreneurial Refugee Network helps people start their own businesses. They want to reclaim the negative connotations of the word ‘refugee’

Claim: Our men and women of the Guard have been forced to contact food banks to feed themselves.
Evidence Summary: Food pantries across the country are working to help federal employees who missed a paycheck on Friday due to the ongoing partial government shutdown. The Massachusetts Military Foundation set up a pop-up pantry specifically for families of the Coast Guard, which is the only military branch currently working without pay. Almost 400 families stopped by in the first two days to take advantage of the 30,000 pounds of free food, according to NPR. Many families are in need of food and necessities that are often difficult and expensive to buy, foundation President Don Cox said.

Claim: "Up until two weeks ago, John McCain was a leading proponent of amnesty. Now with me challenging him, suddenly he has changed."
Evidence Summary: “I don’t trust this – although I welcome it and hope that he…. has found his true self and will be a good senator,” said Joy Behar. McCain added that she believes Romney is “trying to make some weird comeback in one way or another” from his failed presidential run in 2012. “I wouldn't be surprised if in a year, he's thinking about running against Trump.” “He’s very definitely changed his attitude towards the DACA issue and even the wall, once we briefed him," he said.

Claim: "An image of nine white, blondwomen shows the amazing diversity of Fox News anchors."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) wrote last week that Fox News had “crossed a line beyond conservatism and into outright bigotry” The word “diverse” was on many reporters’ lips. Journalists focused on the women's clothes and white men’s race — because when they do it, it's not sexist or racist. It's one of the reasons why people are so frustrated with many in the national media.

Claim: "The Medicare proposal by Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., would allow insurance companies to deny you coverage and drop you for pre-existing conditions."
Evidence Summary: One-third of Senate Democrats and more than half of House Democrats have endorsed Medicare-for-all proposals. Such proposals would lead to more government involvement in health care, and bring the U.S. a step closer to mostly socialized systems such as the British National Health Service. Many Democrats do not support Medicare for All, but at this point even Democrats unwilling to endorse it are frequently calling to expand public insurance programs in some fashion. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn't otherwise qualify.

Claim: "Of the four statewide races this century within a 300-vote margin, three have been overturned in a recount."
Evidence Summary: A group of six Porter County residents, working in bipartisan pairs at separate tables, shuffled and went through stacks of ballots from the November general election. The recorder’s race had the tightest margin of the selected races, with around a 3 percent difference, so will require examining the most ballots. In all, VSTOP officials have said, 4,671 of the 65,449 ballots cast for recorder will be hand tallied. The other races and the ballot measure will be tallied along the way, though officials said those won’t require as many ballots.

Claim: "When I came into office, our vaccination rate in Texas was 65 percent. When I left two weeks ago, it was 95 percent."
Evidence Summary: “I think the message has to be we’re a country that is good, that’s always been good,” he continued. "I applaud the president for re-evaluating what he's doing," he said. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. "A person could say we need to raise taxes a little bit," Walker said.

Claim: "President Obama ""doesn't ... want to admit we're at war."""
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump's history of the Russia invasion of Afghanistan is, well, you know... — Rick Wilson (@TheRickWilson) January 2, 2019 "Sheeeeesh that's not true at all" - overheard in the Pentagon, as Trump tries to recount Russian history in Afghanistan. "We have been at war in Afghanistan now for 17 years. To put things into perspective, people are now enlisting in the United States military who were born after 9/11" "We cannot just have perpetual war. But we also have to maintain our leadership on the global stage"

Claim: "Says Barack Obamas regulatory adviser Cass Sunstein, wants to ban hunting and says animals should be represented in court."
Evidence Summary: Bernhardt is also leading a charge to revise the Endangered Species Act. Gun-control advocates are rejoicing in the gun industry's misfortunes of late. The issue of gun rights is contentious in the United States. But, citing the second amendment, the NRA and gun rights activists have consistently resisted any major gun control measures. The NRA and the National Shooting Sports Foundation say the industry isn't disturbed by the drop in gun sales or the shift in federal politics. It would help both sides of the debate to know what’s fair game.

Claim: "In Russia all people are absolutely equal regardless of their religion, sex, ethnicity, or sexual orientation, while 70 countries of the world have criminal liability for homosexuality."
Evidence Summary: European Parliament urges Russia to investigate claims LGBT+ people in Chechnya are being detained and tortured. Russian LGBT Network, a rights group, said this week it had heard reports of “monstrous torture” of detainees in the predominantly Muslim region. “You’ll find a gay scene in many places that may surprise you,” says Ed Salvato, an LGBT travel expert. Some members of the LGBT community have sought asylum, but details on their experience aren't easy to find.

Claim: "Says Gov. Scott Walker has led people to believe that if Wisconsin doesnt implement a (health-care) exchange, Obamacare doesnt happen here."
Evidence Summary: Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state's voters. Gavin Newsom, California’s new governor, has proposed further action on health care. New York City's mayor is proposing measures that would guarantee coverage for all New Yorkers, including undocumented immigrants. The Trump administration in late 2017 made some bold health-care reforms that appear to be moving things in the right direction. The administration issued guidance that expands the ability of states to reform their individual insurance markets.

Claim: "The head of the IRS ordered 24,000 emails erased before Congress could review them, making sure the American people will never know the real truth."
Evidence Summary: Americans for Tax Fairness says securing Trump's tax returns "is an important public policy objective and a legitimate exercise of Congress's oversight authority" Democrats plan to use a 1924 law to demand that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin turn over tax records to Richard Neal, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Democrats are expected to investigate potential conflicts of interest between Trump’s businesses and his role in setting policy for his administration. They want to require presidents to release their taxes – something Trump has refused to do.

Claim: "Says when an interviewer asked Donald Trump if he treats women with respect, Trump replied, I cant say that."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump said he doesn't think women should be judged on their looks. He also said he didn't think they should have to work as hard as they do. The comments were in response to a question about women's roles in the U.S. economy. The president also said women should not be judged for their looks, but for their actions in the workplace. The remarks were made during an interview with ABC's "This Week," which airs on Sunday at 8 p.m. ET.

Claim: "In every state, women are paid less than men."
Evidence Summary: We are seventh-grade students of Pope John XXIII School in Evanston. We understand that many jobs pay men more than they pay women for the same work. Since we are all created equal, shouldn’t we be treated equally? We hope to spread the word so that we can fix this injustice. — Charlene Solis and Kylie Titzer, Evanston (Illinois)Capitalism in U.S. lacks heart, these students say. — Jerry Slabe, Chicago

Claim: "Theres only one of us whos actually cut government spending -- not two, theres one and youre looking at him."
Evidence Summary: Republicans still parrot a catchphrase lifted from Reagan’s first inaugural address: “Government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem,” writes Julian Zelizer. To propagate this political misanthropy, Republican plutocrats like the Koch brothers have spent millions convincing ordinary Americans that government is their enemy, he says. Among rank-and-file Republicans, it has worked — a 2015 Gallup poll showed that 57 percent favor reducing the size of government. But operationalizing mythology disfigures economic reality, Zelizer says.

Claim: "In 2008, when Flint had 265 sworn officers on their police force, there were 35 murders and 91 rapes in this city. In 2010, when Flint had only 144 police officers, the murder rate climbed to 65, and rapes climbed to 229."
Evidence Summary: Carmen Pagan, 41, became an advocate against gun violence after her brother was shot to death. Her 13-year-old daughter designed a gun out of bullet casings on a canvas with the words: “Our zip codes define our life expectancy” There’s a gap of more than two decades between the part of the city with the lowest life expectancy, 64, and the highest, 87. Police in Chicago, the nation's third largest city, report that 561 homicides were committed between Jan. 1 and Dec. 31, 2018.

Claim: "Obama ""only wants your children to have health insurance."""
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all” these days. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage.

Claim: "Donald Trump said he was excited for the 2008 housing crash that devastated millions of American families, because he thought it would help him scoop up more real estate on the cheap."
Evidence Summary: Trump has given up pretending that Mexicans will buy us a wall, and now is focusing his energy on arguing why we should buy them a wall. If he pulls this off, Trump will have proved that — just like he often says — America truly is a nation of fools. The constant subtext of Trump’s whining about immigration and trade is that other countries are smart to be taking advantage of how brainless America is. Coming off the worst December for the stock market since 1931, Trump isn’t nearly as proud of the economy as he was when it was still Barack Obama's economy.

Claim: "Says in our gun laws were allowing domestic abusers to sidestep this ban on getting a gun. The loophole allows a convicted abuser to walk into a gun show and walk out with a gun, no questions asked."
Evidence Summary: J.B. Pritzker signed a law that will require state licensing of gun dealers. The Illinois State Rifle Association threatened to challenge it in court. House Democrats are set to introduce a bill that would significantly expand the requirements for background checks on gun sales. The bill will be introduced on the eighth anniversary of the Tucson, Arizona, mass shooting that targeted one of Giffords’ constituent meetings.“I am thrilled that for the first time in decades, the United States House of Representatives will no longer sit silent as our nation reels from the growing gun violence epidemic,” the former Democratic congresswoman said in a statement.

Claim: "The high-speed rail project would create 60,000-plus jobs for Floridians."
Evidence Summary: This would generate $144bn in additional income for families who need it most, including 23.1 million women and 4.5 million single parents. Lincoln Yards will create 10,000 construction jobs and more than 24,000 permanent jobs, creating an annual economic output of $4.5 billion. Public transportation is a major contributor to job growth and property values in the Chicago area. Half of the new jobs created between 2005 and 2015 were located within a half-mile of a CTA or Metra station.

Claim: "Nothing was done. I mean, $25 million was spent, but we dont have that (gun ownership)database."
Evidence Summary: "We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control and ultimately fuel serious violence," he said. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he added. "Today is a new day. Today, we have a new speaker, and today we have the new majority. And today, we’re going to take decisive action.” "I don't understand what the security question will be and what gets thrown in there," the president said.

Claim: Almost 40 percent of all (undocumented)immigrants come by plane and they overstay their visas.
Evidence Summary: In 2017, for the first time, the unauthorized population from Mexico constituted less than one-half of all the undocumented people in the U.S. Mexico was the leading country for visa overstays in 2016, "about twice the number from India, China and Venezuela" The number of undocumented people coming from Venezuela, which is wracked by political and economic turmoil, increased from 60,000 to 145,000 in 2017. "Both modes of entry are a big problem," said Vaughan.

Claim: "Commercial buses in the United States have a stellar safety record, a safety record that exceeds that of any other commercial mode or surface transportation mode."
Evidence Summary: A Facebook Live video posted shortly after 4 p.m. Tuesday shows a school bus with district 121 and 56 markings on it stopped as a freight train shoots past. Only “a few centimeters” separated the school bus from the train, the woman said in her Facebook post. "Historically, roadways have been designed to make it as efficient as possible for the vehicle," Kolosh said. "We now have to do a far better job of building our infrastructure to accommodate all road users"

Claim: "Here, we have Thanksgiving, we have Christmas, we have the 4th of July. Every year in Iran, they celebrate Death to America day."
Evidence Summary: Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's comments on Wednesday were unusually harsh, reflecting broader tensions between Iran and the United States. Khamenei also recounted a story about a U.S. official who once predicted he would celebrate Christmas in Iran. The persecution of Christians has continued during the presidency of the so-called moderate Hassan Rouhani. There are believed to be roughly 350,000 Christians in Iran, a number that is rising as more Muslims convert to Christianity. In a late December sermon, Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami declared that “Christians should honor Jesus and chant ‘Death to America’”

Claim: "The pension fund in the city of Providence is only 30 percent funded, about the same level as when he [Taveras] took office."
Evidence Summary: The Chicago Tribune asked mayoral candidates how they would deal with the city's pension crisis. Five of the five candidates said they would change the terms of future police and fire labor contracts. The Tribune says the pension hole is one of the most pressing problems the city will face during the next four years. The pension hole starts at nearly $300 million in 2020 and grows to nearly $1 billion by 2023, the paper says. The size of the impending shortfall defies neat, politically safe solutions.

Claim: "The Obama administration offered $900 million to Hamas, a recognized terrorist organization, to rebuild Gaza."
Evidence Summary: The court settlements far exceed the aid itself, which totaled $61 million last year. The U.S. has provided more than $850 million to support the Palestinian security forces since 2007. The administration and some pro-Israel members of Congress have been looking for ways to preserve the aid, but it's unlikely a fix will be found until after the shutdown ends. "To abandon schools and water systems while in the midst of construction represents the worst instincts of this administration," says Dave Harden, who oversaw aid programs in the Palestinian territories.

Claim: "I won the South Carolina primary in 2004, and I was way behind in the polls at this stage in 2004."
Evidence Summary: Clyburn stayed neutral through the state’s 2008 primary, but he publicly told former President Bill Clinton to “chill a little bit” on his Obama attacks days before the vote. Clyburn didn’t endorse President Barack Obama over Hillary Clinton until June that year. But he backed Clinton over Sanders in 2016 about a week before the state's primary and told reporters that Sanders never asked for his endorsement. Clinton ultimately crushed Sanders in South Carolina, 74 percent to 26 percent.

Claim: "(Big banks) have invested over $300,000 in (Joe Heck), and Heck has sponsored $44 million dollars in tax breaks for banks."
Evidence Summary: More than 100 Democratic candidates outraised their Republican counterparts in hotly contested congressional races. Not since 2008 have donors in the securities and investment industry given a higher percentage to Democratic candidates and committees than to Republicans. The Democrats’ moneyed interests don’t want more powerful labor unions. They are not in favor of stronger antitrust enforcement against large corporations. They resist firmer regulation of Wall Street. The shift is also due to conservative groups spending less than in previous elections, and to other conservative groups focusing on so-called issue ads instead of attacking or supporting candidates.

Claim: "The alternative to higher state worker pension and health care payments is to look at 1,500 layoffs of state employees or close to 200,000 children who would be bumped off Medicaid-related programs."
Evidence Summary: An estimated 800,000 government workers affected by the shutdown won't lose their health insurance. An unknown number are in limbo like Daskalakis, unable to add family members to an existing health plan. Health coverage presents a short-term problem for those laid off workers. The longer this goes on, the more we will see these types of occurrences, says Dan Blair, senior counselor at the Bipartisan Policy Center. The study presented some troubling results last fall at the Harvard School of Health and the New York Times.

Claim: "Contrary to popular belief, we actually dont have that many public employeesWe are well below average in the number of public employees."
Evidence Summary: "We need the government to start focusing on our education," he says. "And I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments. People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I”m doing" "I want very much for them to go to a public school just like I went to public schools. We have to do something.”

Claim: "Right now, we have the lowest gas tax of anywhere in the country."
Evidence Summary: Carbon tax is a levy on the use of oil, natural gas and coal. Everything that is fabricated, grown, operated or moved is made possible by hydrocarbons. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Trump said. Experts said Trump can take some credit for the increased supply of gas that has driven prices lower, but that fuel economics is a hugely complex subject, impacted by many variables. "Like a big Tax Cut for America and the World," he said.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine want to shut down shale, and shut down natural gas."
Evidence Summary: By 2050, the country’s newly tapped reserves are projected to spew 120 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. The report calls on federal and state lawmakers to cut off the $20 billion in subsidies fossil fuels receive each year. Upward of 60 percent of the emissions enabled by new U.S. drilling would come from two major fracking hot spots. The White House last year laid out an ambitious plan to expand oil and gas production in federally controlled waters and lands.

Claim: Providence has amongst the highest tax rate(s) in the entire country.
Evidence Summary: The top marginal federal income tax rate rose to 63 percent in 1932. The rate spiked at 92 percent in 1953 and didn’t fall to pre-1932 levels until 1982. Without more prudence in handling the huge budget crisis in Illinois, more and more citizens will move to other states where tax rates are more equitable. The less fortunate should be assisted through social service programs until they can get on their own feet and become independent, the authors say. The tax rates in Illinois have become excessive, they say.

Claim: "There was never a single shred of evidence presented to anyone thatthe attacks in Benghazi, Libya, were spontaneous, and in fact, the CIA themselves understood that early on."
Evidence Summary: Rice initially claimed on several talk shows that the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi was triggered by protests over an anti-Islam video. Critics said Rice, Clinton and other government officials intentionally deceived the public about the nature of the attack. That deposition is part of Judicial Watch's inquiry into whether the State Department acted in bad faith by not telling a court for months that they had asked in mid-2014 for missing emails to be returned. The attack resulted in the deaths of four Americans, including US Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens.

Claim: "To help balance the 2011-13 budget, Gov. Scott Walker used a credit card approach that pushed over $500 million in debt onto our children and our grandchildren costing state taxpayers more than $150 million in interest."
Evidence Summary: His boldest and most disputed move came right out of the gate, when he effectively eliminated public sector collective bargaining while forcing state workers to pay more for health care and pension benefits. The fight over that brought protests as large as 100,000 people and made Walker a national conservative star. His profile only grew when he defeated the 2012 recall effort. His conduct and that of those like him laid the groundwork for the modern Republican Party led by Donald Trump," he said in a statement. Walker signed into law a litany of Republican priorities. He'll have to negotiate a new contract with the state’s largest employee union.

Claim: "Among the money spent on health care in the United States, ""46 cents on every dollar spent is through Medicare and Medicaid."""
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. Studies have shown that health care prices in the U.S. are outrageously high by international standards. In a Medicare for All system, the government would force American prices down ― not all the way down to European levels, but enough to get a better handle on costs here. The big question is how doctors, hospitals, drugmakers and all the other industries related to health care would react.

Claim: "Atlanta now has as many visitors as Las Vegas, San Diego and Los Angeles. Orlando, Fla., and New York City still have more visitors."
Evidence Summary: The tourism record represents a 3.1% increase over 2017’s total of 48.5 million visitors. In 2017, travel spending generated $2.4 trillion in economic output and supported 15.6 million American workers. U.S. travel exports totaled $251 billion, creating a $77 billion travel trade surplus, reducing our trade deficit. We look forward to working with the 116th Congress to boost our economy, create jobs and lower ourTrade deficit while enhancing America's security and improving the travel experience.

Claim: "The Bush administration pulled the troops out of Afghanistan, pulled the resources away, because they wanted to invade Iraq instead."
Evidence Summary: President Trump said Russia was in Afghanistan because terrorists were going into Russia. The comments marked a surprising split with U.S. conservatives dating back to President Ronald Reagan, who saw the invasion as an attempt to spread communism. “The most shameless Soviet propagandist never claimed that Afghan terrorists were attacking Russia,” said Barnett Rubin, an Afghanistan expert at New York University. There was ultimately a problem with extremism in Afghanistan, but it developed largely after the USSR left, and the mujahideen groups that sprang up to fight the Soviets devolved into the Taliban.

Claim: "Bill OBriens Tea Party legislature tried to repeal kindergarten and compulsory education, defund Planned Parenthood and eliminate insurance coverage for birth control."
Evidence Summary: Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. In his first run for public office against then-Sen. Ted Kennedy, Romney declared himself a strong supporter of abortion rights. In 2012, facing a much different electorate, Romney called for defunding Planned Parenthood to win the evangelical-heavy Republican presidential primaries. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare.

Claim: "This is the same (farm) bill we voted on a few weeks ago, with the exception of one or two sentences."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Steny HOYER: " Gridlock is not what they voted for" Rep. Young: "What I have here is the opportunity to … make this committee and its work look different for a generation” "Nothing, no bill, can ever get more radical than what is necessary to get to 218," HOYer says. "I think there is a way to do it," Young says of a possible return of earmarks. "It is so easy to do. I want to repeat again: the six bills that we want to pass until September 30th and then leave the one bill where there are questions for 30 days to discuss options," she says.

Claim: "Says none of the government programs targeted for elimination or severe cutback in House Republican spending plans appeared on the GAOs list of government programs at high risk of waste, fraud and abuse."
Evidence Summary: Under a law signed by President Obama several years ago, the White House’s Office of Management and Budget is required to make across-the-board cuts to other programs if any new deficit-increasing legislation is enacted. Hammill argued that if Congress were to pass a new entitlement program like those being championed by liberals, OMB director Mick Mulvaney could take the scissors to other federal programs Democrats support. Khanna had tweeted his opposition to the measure earlier: “I will be voting NO on the Rules package with #PayGo”

Claim: "When Chuck Schumer and Marco Rubio tried to push amnesty, it was Ted Cruz who stopped them."
Evidence Summary: Cruz said Democrats are holding federal workers hostage by not ending the shutdown and refusing to vote on issues that they’ve moved on in the past. Cruz: "I don't think it's the president's fault that Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats are being political" Cruz was responsible for a shutdown six years ago as he fought to defund Obamacare, sparking that Republican’s ire, said Sen. Ted Bennet, R-Texas. "They're too hard for me to take, because when the senator from Texas shut this government down in 2013, my state was flooded," Bennet said.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton has already said shes going to wipe out the Second Amendment. She doesnt believe in the First Amendment. And, she also believes in big government, which flies in the face of the 10th Amendment"
Evidence Summary: The 116th Congress began Thursday. Nancy Pelosi became Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives once again. Warren highlighted her push to build 3.2 million housing units across the country. She touted that “I have the biggest anti-corruption proposal since Watergate’ Warren also called for making “everyone who runs for public federal office put their tax returns online, everyone’s”Trump, both as a candidate and as president, has repeatedly refused to release any of his federal income tax returns.

Claim: "Ohio lost 400,000 jobs on his (Ted Stricklands) watch."
Evidence Summary: He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said. It's time for Republicans in our state capitals and Washington to get in step with the fast-moving parade.

Claim: "Says Virginia, Florida and Georgia are the three states that are the principal source for gun trafficking."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik’s commentary distorted a few facts, Yvonne Smith says. It is true firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, she says. But almost 24,000, or 60 percent, of those were suicides, she adds. Smith: When prosecutors plea-bargain and judges slap wrists, you wind up with articles like Ms. Vinik's, which misrepresent the facts and the real problem. The Illinois State Rifle Association says “nothing in this bill is going to enhance public safety in Illinois”

Claim: Says Hillary Clinton shows up in Broward County and had a private meeting with elections supervisor Brenda Snipes.
Evidence Summary: A federal judge expressed concerns with Gov. Rick Scott's suspension of former Broward County elections chief Brenda Snipes. Snipes sued Scott and the Florida Senate last month, claiming the governor maligned her and the Senate violated her due process rights when it denied her a hearing. The move completes a Republican-led makeover of election oversight and administration in two of Florida's deepest-blue counties. DeSantis suspended Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections Susan Bucher Friday on the recommendation of Secretary of State Mike Ertel.

Claim: "Clayton County has employed 1,300 people over the past seven months through the Neighborhood Stabilization Program."
Evidence Summary: The company will offer $225 million in low-cost loans to subsidize the preservation and construction of middle-income or "work force" housing. The resulting residences will target households making between $62,000 and $124,000 per year. Another $250 million in market rate loans will support low-income housing throughout King County. The company did not reply to a question about the experience levels sought for youth care workers, case managers, clinical counselors, educational instructors, drivers, and travel chaperones.

Claim: "Health care reform plans being consided in Congress ""will finally reduce the costs of health care."""
Evidence Summary: One-third of Senate Democrats and more than half of House Democrats have endorsed Medicare-for-all proposals. Such proposals would lead to more government involvement in health care, and bring the U.S. a step closer to mostly socialized systems such as the British National Health Service. Of course, there is still more work to be done. The Trump administration can build on these accomplishments by implementing additional policies that will give Americans more ways to get quality, affordable care, says Julian Zelizer.

Claim: "Mayor Tom Barretts policies drove unemployment up 27 percent in Milwaukee, pushing it to one of Americas 10 worst cities for unemployment."
Evidence Summary: Only the state of New York lost more residents. Chicago's unemployment rate rose to 3.9%, but only because more people entered the workforce. Cities and states should focus on broader types of employment to extend economic improvement to every part of society, instead of trying to attract big names such as Amazon. The solutions cannot be limited to new revenue raised by expanded gambling and legalizing recreational marijuana, the authors say. They say employers want deeper workers’ compensation reform and property tax relief, among other things.

Claim: "Our debt now is about $140,000 per household."
Evidence Summary: "It's almost like children, Republicans and Democrats, two children fighting against each other tit for tat," Siciliano said. "You got a million people out of work and you know, it's like pawns, pawns in a game." Between their house and car payments, the couple said they owe about $3,000 dollars. The amount of money right now in their bank account is $2,100. "This is ridiuclous and this is going to go on for months"

Claim: "Under Charlie Crist, Florida lost 825,000 jobs and the unemployment rate increased from 3.5 percent to 11.1 percent."
Evidence Summary: The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon, saying the "tremendous" jobs number was partly due to companies such as auto manufacturers repatriating to the U.S.

Claim: "The Massachusetts health care plan dealt with 8 percent of our population, far less than the 100 percent of American people affected by President Barack Obamas health care law."
Evidence Summary: About 7 million fewer Americans had health insurance at the end of last year compared with two years prior, and the share of people who are uninsured is the highest it’s been since 2014. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. At its peak, just after Obamacare was passed but before it went into effect, nearly one-in-five Americans lacked health insurance. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act.

Claim: Incoming House Speaker Dean Cannon and incoming Senate President Mike Haridopolos have said they plan to champion efforts next legislative session to allow oil rigs off Florida's coast.
Evidence Summary: The session will be held in the high-security Situation Room at the White House, which is typically used to handle sensitive information. Democrats have discussed a number of potential bills that would codify the demands of the Martinez case or give local communities more power to say no to drilling. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and the top incoming House Republicans – Kevin McCarthy of California and Steve Scalise of Louisiana – plan to attend, according to aides. The departing House speaker, Paul Ryan, is not expected.

Claim: "One man (New Castle, Del., County Executive, Chris Coons) thought property taxes should be hiked almost 50 percent."
Evidence Summary: Baron criticized the practice of larger tax levy increases and reliance on new construction. “We need to aggressively look for new revenues and look at ways to enhancing the quality of life to an extent people will say they’ll live here even if they do have to pay high taxes,” he said. The case is bad karma for the already tainted property tax appeals industry, long a troubling nexus of politicians, lawyers — and key players such as Burke who wear both hats. The calculations tend to benefit property owners who hire powerful attorneys, often at the ultimate expense of property owners in low-income and minority communities.

Claim: "NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, has been a disaster for Pennsylvania."
Evidence Summary: A common 2016 campaign riff was his promise to bring jobs back, get companies to return production to the U.S., and scrap NAFTA. Lori Wallach, director at Public Citizen’s Global Trade, explains how their critique of corporate-rigged trade policies managed to align in some surprising ways with the president's trade nationalist agenda. While NAFTA 2.0 shows some progress, there are still a lot of improvements they want to see made. Now, it has to be chewed over by a newly Democratic House and phase 2 begins.

Claim: "There is no incontrovertible proof that speed, in and of itself, is the contributing factor to increasing (vehicular) fatalities."
Evidence Summary: Nearly 40,000 people are killed by cars in the U.S. annually. Pedestrian deaths have been at a 25-year high, according to the Governors Highway Safety Association. A 2017 study found that an average of 13 people a day were killed by Cars between 2005 and 2014. "We now have to do a far better job of building our infrastructure to accommodate all road users," Kolosh said. "Historically, roadways have been designed to make it as efficient as possible for the vehicle"

Claim: "By 2009, dozens of senior terrorists had been taken off the battlefield by drones."
Evidence Summary: The Gatwick drone incident has provoked serious soul-searching among airport controllers and security experts about the need to invest in better counterdrone technology. The attack by Yemen's Shiite Houthi rebels that killed at least six people shows how the Arab world's poorest country has become one of the world's top battlefields for drones. Both the rebels and the Saudi-led coalition fighting them, as well as the U.S., continue to use them for surveillance and attacks. While we absolutely should be concerned about the malevolent use of consumer drones, we shouldn't become so paranoid about these dangers.

Claim: "Says Tommy Thompson favors Obamas health care mandate, was publicly thanked by Obama for health reform support and that Thompson says we cant repeal Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: House Democrats say they're getting involved on behalf of the millions of Americans with health issues. The Trump administration last year said it could not defend all of the law, including its popular protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., called intervention a waste of taxpayer dollars "to defend the indefensible" "Today’s announcement is an historic step on the road toward health justice for all," California Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a statement.

Claim: "Says state Rep. Jim Keffer, a GOP lieutenant to House Speaker Joe Straus, ""did mail pieces for Democrat Mark Strama to help him defeat"" a Republican."
Evidence Summary: King still faces the potential for a formal resolution of censure in the House of Representatives. He joins two other House Republicans, Chris Collins of New York and Duncan Hunter of California, in having no committee assignments. King drew a primary challenge last week from Randy Feenstra, an ardent social conservative who serves in the Iowa state senate. Other potential Republican candidates include former Rep. Kevin Yoder, who lost reelection in a suburban Kansas City district in November; Kris Kobach, the former Kansas secretary of state who lost the race for governor last year.

Claim: "The Department of Justice, under the Obama administration, disagrees with the decision Judge Sotomayor made in the Ricci vs. DeStefano case."
Evidence Summary: The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court to overturn those lower court judgments. The Department of Homeland Security and the attorney general concluded that it is unlawful. But supporters of the DACA program said nothing in the lower court rulings would prevent the government from undertaking deportation proceedings against any individual DACA recipient if the need arose. Chief Justice Roberts has had a bellyful of Trump’s antics, and that he is looking to salvage the reputation of one of the few institutions of government that retains a semblance of legitimacy.

Claim: "Says that since 1975, redistricting by Texas lawmakers has always been found in violation of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act."
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court said it plans to hear two cases on the matter in March. One involves North Carolina’s congressional map. The other involves a single Maryland congressional district. In both of last year”s cases, lower courts struck down gerrymandered districts, saying they were so excessively drawn to benefit one political party that they violated the U.S. Constitution. “Whether it is Democrats or Republicans manipulating the election maps, g Gerrymanders cheat voters out of true representation,” said Karen Hobert Flynn, president of the government watchdog group Common Cause.

Claim: Knopp says he upheld a campaign promise not to join the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS).
Evidence Summary: Pelosi earned a key endorsement ahead of the rules vote, however, from Congressional Progressive Caucus co-chairs Pramila Jayapal and Mark Pocan. They said they had been "concerned about PAYGO for months," but were satisfied with commitments from House Democratic leaders not to let it get in the way of progressive legislation. "With the assurances that PAYGO can be waived, we do plan to vote for the House rules package and proceed with legislation to fix the statute," they said.

Claim: "After the oil spill, Congressman Adam Putnam ""doubled down saying all energy sources, including oil drilling in the Gulf, should be considered just days after the oil spill started."""
Evidence Summary: The partial government shutdown is the longest in the history of the United States. Despite this, the Trump administration has still found a way to plow ahead with its "energy dominance" agenda. Democrats in Congress and advocacy groups are aghast at the administration’s priorities, especially while federal workers go without pay. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

Claim: "The United States has an immigration system where only 6.5 percent of people who come here, come here based on labor and skill."
Evidence Summary: Capps: "You don't have to fan the flames of hysteria to fix an immigration system" Capps: There is a misconception that Mexico is sending the most unauthorized immigrants now. "The big Asian countries of China and India are sending more people to the U.S. each year now than Mexico," Capps said. "Where Did You Get This Number?" is CNN Tech's weekly, offbeat look at the news in the United States. To hear more of our discussions on immigration, download the CNN Tech podcast.

Claim: Says Gov. Rick Scott is spending a quarter of a million of our tax dollars to robocall people.
Evidence Summary: A federal judge on Monday expressed concerns with Gov. Rick Scott's suspension of former Broward County elections chief Brenda Snipes. Snipes sued Scott and the Florida Senate last month, claiming the governor maligned her and the Senate violated her due process rights when it denied her a hearing. Scott had made more than a dozen trips to Puerto Rico, created programs to welcome islanders who fled their hurricane-ravaged island for Florida. He spent a record $8 million on ads targeting Latinos and was a regular presence on Puerto Rican television.

Claim: "On allowing abortion in cases of rape or incest, I have never said that or advocated that."
Evidence Summary: In 1997, he suggested that if a gene was discovered for homosexuality prior to a baby's birth and a pregnant woman didn't want the baby with this gene, she should be allowed to abort. He later said his comments were taken out of context but said in an interview with the Independent: "I simply said that women in that situation should have a choice over whether or not to abort" In 2012, he told a science conference that "having all these women around makes it more fun for the men but they're probably less effective"

Claim: "In South Florida, weve had nine inches of sea-level rise since the 1920s."
Evidence Summary: A rise of 4 meters (about 12 feet) would be enough to put many coastal towns and cities underwater and submerge much of South Florida. In the past 40 years, Antarctica's contribution to global sea level rise has only been a half an inch. Traditionally the western side of Antarctica has been the biggest source of anxiety among scientists. The Everglades – the largest subtropical wilderness left in the United States – is an environmental treasure imperiled by pollution, toxic algae blooms, disrupted water flow.

Claim: "Inequality in Texas is steadily getting worse, with very few rich people, a great many poor people, and fewer and fewer in the middle."
Evidence Summary: The view that excessive income concentration corrodes the social contract has deep roots in America. Sharply progressive taxation is an American invention. The U.S. was the first country in the world to impose tax rates as high as 67 percent on the highest incomes. While wages for workers have remained flat for decades, expenses for health care, housing, and most basic needs have risen. Alongside record concentrations of income and wealth at the top, America’s racial wealth divide has persisted – or worsened.

Claim: "Half of all personal bankruptcies in America ""are caused by medical bills."""
Evidence Summary: Cancer survivors ages 18 to 49 appeared hardest hit by these problems. About 43 percent had health-related money problems, compared to 30 percent of their counterparts who never had cancer. High deductibles, copayments, and treatments their insurance did not cover caused them to deplete their savings. “What’s staggering here is there is no way people could know what they would be in for,” said Harvard professor Robert Blendon.“We already knew that extreme financial insolvency, i.e. bankruptcy, increases the risk of early mortality among cancer survivors.

Claim: "Spending on welfare, on prisons, and education, all of those have dropped by hundreds of millions of dollars because of Arizonas immigration laws that drove outundocumented immigrants."
Evidence Summary: Illegal immigration costs taxpayers a staggering $134.9 billion a year while contributing only $19 billion in state, federal, and local taxes. Medical costs make up the lion’s share of government expenditures on illegal immigrants, while education is the largest single expense that illegal immigration imposes on state and local governments. Communities across America are also being devastated by the violent crime and drug trafficking that result from our failure to control the border – an issue Donald Trump has addressed repeatedly and emphatically ever since he first announced his candidacy for president.

Claim: "Over the last 20 years, the world has changed. It used to be that one could make a career out of working for one company. Today, the average worker stays at his or her job for barely four years."
Evidence Summary: "I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments. People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I'm doing" "Many growing businesses like ours are continuing to invest in the future regardless" "I went out and got a good job to support my family ― to allow them to be happy and healthy and not worry" "It's crucial that we tackle this issue head on"

Claim: Scott Walker raises nearly 70 percent of his money from out of state
Evidence Summary: Illinois Governor-elect J.B. Pritzker will be the state's richest governor when he's sworn in on Monday. This morning his transition team announced he was going to open up his wallet to bolster the salaries of some of his top state government aides. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. “I hear the GOP thinks women dancing are scandalous,” she wrote in a tweet liked more than 787,000 times.

Claim: "Says after Hillary Clinton helped a man accused of raping a 12-year-old, shes seen laughing on two separate occasions, laughing at the girl who was raped."
Evidence Summary: Last year, former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton issued what left-leaning Vox.com called a "deeply unsatisfying" explanation for why she did not fire a staffer working on her 2008 presidential campaign who was accused of sexual misconduct. Asked by Cooper whether he was unaware of the accusations, Sanders sarcastically replied: "Uh, yes. I was a little bit busy running around the country, trying to make the case." This is not, however, the first time Trump has used the epidemic of sexual assault, or those who have been forced to endure it, for his own political gain.

Claim: "When I became president and CEO of Godfathers Pizza, it was supposed to go bankrupt . . . We turned it around with common-sense business principles."
Evidence Summary: In 20-plus years as an executive and investor, I did very well closing deals, building companies and creating jobs. As governor and a senator, I’ve relied on my business experience..."Things just aren't getting resolved. The thing that businesses hate is uncertainty, and we've got a ton of it," he says. "I'm still fighting for this business and I will do that to the very end until there's no breath left in me" "I took office amid a great ethical, moral and economic crisis. I am committed to changing our history," he adds.

Claim: "In Houston, Texas, today, there are no homeless veterans."
Evidence Summary: Robert Hoskie lost his job nine years ago when the earthquake destroyed the elementary school where he worked. "I know what it is to be homeless. Nobody deserves to live like that," he said. Elmer Alvarez: "That would not have been possible without the support of the residents of Harris County" "I am grateful for the lessons my father and Gary taught me, and for the pieces of their hearts they shared with me and with so many others," Roberta Hoskie says.

Claim: Says the City of Portland alone has 84 public relation representatives on payroll which cost taxpayers over $6.2 million (a year).
Evidence Summary: In Orland Park, for instance, Mayor Keith Pekau reported a Dec. 31 balance of $31,498 in his campaign fund. The way procurement is structured forces the city to pay for materials and services at higher than market rates. Payments to a municipal employee from a mayor’s campaign fund raise questions about potential conflicts, Redfield said. Many towns smaller than Chicago do not need full-time mayors and council members, and elected officials often would be unable to serve if they had to give up their day jobs.

Claim: "Since Obama took office, a net of 540,000 additional black Americans Obamas strongest supporters have lost their jobs."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump remembered his black and Hispanic constituents and what’s good for us. As an African-American who cares about closing income gaps between advantaged and disadvantaged groups, I appreciated the shoutout. Presidents have a right to toot their own horns during good economic times because, heaven knows, they’ll get the blame when things turn sour. As president, Obama often chose race-neutral language while pressing for health care, criminal justice and immigration reform. He faced criticism both from those who said he was doing more for black Americans than for anyone else and those who say he was not doing enough.

Claim: "My opponent was on both the city of Chicago payroll and the state of Illinois payroll simultaneously, taking full salary, funding her full pension benefits both as a city worker and as a state worker for 10 years."
Evidence Summary: Daley’s good government and transparency proposals are at odds with his refusal to release his full tax returns. Both campaigns had hired the same campaign consultant. The consultant either has trouble responding to voicemails or doesn’t want to tell us how this happened. During the wide-ranging and at times testy forum, the candidates also offered their thoughts on economic development, shoring up the city”s finances and curbing violence in the city. But tensions flared on the topic of ethics reform.

Claim: "Every day, about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia."
Evidence Summary: In a report issued before Sessions’ announcement of a change in federal policy, BDS Analytics forecast that marijuana sales in California alone could total $3.7 billion in 2018 and $5.1 billion in 2019. In November 2018, Michigan became the 10th state to legalize recreational cannabis use; New Jersey and others may soon follow. Yet even as marijuana use has become more socially acceptable, psychiatrists and epidemiologists have reached a consensus that it presents more serious risks than most people realize.

Claim: "Says that according to many reports and even our own data, the state of Texas spent more through Medicaid on orthodontia than all other states combined."
Evidence Summary: Researchers sketched a vivid line Friday linking the dollars spent by drugmakers to a vast opioid epidemic that has led to tens of thousands of deaths. For each three additional payments made to physicians per 100,000 people in a county, opioid overdose deaths were up 18 percent, according to the study. Half of addiction treatment facilities there still offer no medication-assisted treatment, despite evidence that it’s often the best choice. Former President George W. Bush's health department approved Medicaid spending caps in Rhode Island and Vermont.

Claim: "Just like Hillary Clinton, Russ Feingold had a run-in with corruption and scandal by using a personal slush fund -- a.k.a. the Feingold Foundation -- while plotting another run for U.S. Senate."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand said she would not accept money from corporate partisan fundraising political action committees (Pacs) or federal lobbyists, and said she did not want an outside so-called Super Pac supporting her candidacy. The New York senator angered some Democratic donors, including financier George Soros, with her vocal stance against former senator Al Franken when he was accused of sexual misconduct. Gillibrand and other potential 2020 Dem candidates who’ve gotten big finance-industry donations in the past have spent the last two years endorsing as many ambitious, leftist policy ideas as possible.

Claim: "Since 2009, after-tax incomes are up nearly 14 percent."
Evidence Summary: Average earnings, excluding bonuses, increased by 3.3% in the year to November. ONS head of labour market David Freeman said: "The number of people working grew again" But at an average 10%, it’s pretty much in line with the historic rate since 1998. The proportion of the population in the labor force has risen sharply since 2012, by more than. And now many of the people who broke the progress machine are trying to sell us their services as repairmen.

Claim: "We understand that this heroin is primarily coming from Mexico, over the border."
Evidence Summary: The DEA says Mexican drug cartels transport the bulk of their drugs over the Southwest border through ports of entry (POEs) The drugs are typically secreted in hidden compartments when transported in passenger vehicles or commingled with legitimate goods when transporting in tractor trailers. Women and children are most harmed by this humanitarian crisis on our southern border. This is not a manufactured crisis or waste of money, as the Democratic leaders in Congress have falsely and irresponsibly asserted. We need to look at more border patrol agents, technology and other means as well.

Claim: Ted Cruz has been to Iowa four times. Rio Grande Valley of Texas -- just once.
Evidence Summary: Mr. O’Rourke’s trip would begin from his El Paso home and keep him away from Iowa and other early-voting states. President Trump, who may or may not face competition from Republican opponents next year, already has visited Iowa three times since he assumed office in 2017. For a small state with a non-diverse population, Iowa certainly can draw a crowd. Iowans and presidential hopefuls can thank President Carter, who in 1976 made the Democrat caucus the place to be in a crowded field.

Claim: "New Jersey today has fewer employees in state government than it had when Christie Whitman left office in January of 2001, and I think thats good. And we did it without any layoffs. We did it through attrition."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation. He offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. Rauner pointed to some small-bore achievements during his farewell appearance Thursday before the Tribune Editorial Board. But he didn’t come close to backing up his parting boast, “I’ll put our track record of accomplishment up against any governor in the U.S. in the last four years”

Claim: "Over the past 10 years, the number of people living in Lower Manhattan has nearly doubled. In fact, Lower Manhattan has added more people over the last 10 years than Atlanta, Dallas and Philadelphia combined."
Evidence Summary: The proportion of the population in the labor force has risen sharply since 2012. "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes," Curtis says. Curtis: “Our City has made great strides in stabilizing our finances but the job isn’t done. In the next four years ….” "This market is starting to become mature and sophisticated, there’s positive sentiment,” Harris says.

Claim: "Before we even passed health care, 4 millions kids got health insurance that didnt have it before, through the Childrens Health Insurance Program."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. “This is an area the country has made enormous progress on, and it’s something we should all feel proud of — and Senator Hatch should too,” said Joan Alker, executive director of Georgetown University”s Center for Children and Families. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago.

Claim: "The top man at Yale Law School came out ... with just a raging report about former HP CEO Carly Fiorina,saying she isone of the worst executives in his memory in history running the company."
Evidence Summary: The board of Google’s parent company, Alphabet, is being sued in California over the departure of Andy Rubin, a senior executive known as the “father of Android” The shareholder lawsuit alleges that directors knew about an investigation into a sexual harassment claim against Mr. Rubin but nevertheless played an “active and direct role” in approving a $90 million severance package for him. Women from Ivy League schools told stories of wearing khakis and loafers to fit in with their male colleagues.

Claim: "Last week, the Supreme Court reversed a century of law that I believe will open the floodgates for special interests including foreign corporations to spend without limit in our elections."
Evidence Summary: From the moment Donald Trump was declared the winner of the 2016 presidential election, Democrats have spun wild conspiracy theories about supposed collusion with Russian intelligence operatives. President Trump, however, has survived the onslaught by staying true to the voters who elected him, delivering on promise after promise despite intense liberal resistance. Liberal lawyers have scoured the country for the most anti-Trump judges, and thus far have succeeded in getting those judges to thwart President Trump’s travel ban, his zero tolerance policy on illegal immigration, and his revocation of President Obama's blatantly unconstitutional DACA order.

Claim: "I'm predicting (the Saints) will go not only undefeated, but all the way through the Super Bowl -- something that's never been done before."
Evidence Summary: CBS' lead NFL color commentator Tony Romo is a modern day Nostradamus. Romo repeatedly glanced at various offensive formations and alignments. Then just before the snap, Romo would accurately predict what was about to unfold. “All the gloomsters, the prophets of doom, are the people who prophesied doom before and they’ve been wrong in all their earlier forecasts,” he said.“Everything that we dreamed and hoped for when he was born is going to begin.”

Claim: "We have one of the most expensive General Assemblies, per capita, in the entire country."
Evidence Summary: "We need the government to start focusing on our education," he says. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he adds. "We’re not going to stop and just say, ‘Oh this is a cost of doing business'’“But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to.’ ““It has to encompass all parts of the country,” he says, “and that’s what we need.”

Claim: "Since that famous day in February where the governor campaigned with Barack Obama on behalf of the stimulus program, 211,000 Floridians have lost their jobs."
Evidence Summary: Candidates must stress that their opponents’ inaction on environmental issues hurts American workers and their communities. Rick Scott won a Senate seat this fall even though his gutting of Florida’s water management budget likely created the conditions for the unprecedented red tide event. California Gov. Gavin Newsom offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis is making a mark quickly in his first few days in office, unveiling a wide-ranging environmental plan.

Claim: "Barack Obama's health care plan ""would leave 15 million Americans out."""
Evidence Summary: Survey finds broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage.

Claim: "Says of 80,000 people who were denied a firearm in 2012 due to a failed background check, only 44 were prosecuted."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik’s commentary distorted a few facts, says Yvonne Smith. It is true firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, Smith says. But there are also many unregistered guns in circulation, she says. Smith: Many states have relaxed their concealed carry laws, on the theory that concealed-gun carriers deter crime. There is no credible evidence that permissive laws prevent or deter crime, she writes. But states that passed right-to-carry laws experienced 13 to 15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates over a period of 10 years.

Claim: "400,000 Oregonians have gained access to health care through the Affordable Care Act."
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. Obamacare's Medicaid expansion has now been extended to 37 states, including several additional red states. Enrollment in the federally run insurance marketplaces dipped less than 5 percent this year, even though there's no longer a tax penalty for people who go without health insurance. The tide has shifted, however, and the gains seen during the early years of Obamacare are being reversed. The uninsured rate in all three states are below the national average of 10 percent.

Claim: "20,000 Kansans lost their health insurance because of (Obamacare)."
Evidence Summary: 7.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, according to a new Gallup survey. That's the highest uninsured rate since the first quarter of 2008, when the rate peaked at 14.6 percent. The survey doesn't ask respondents why they don't have health insurance, but the report does point to several likely causes, including rising prices and policy changes made by President Donald Trump’s administration and the Republican majority in Congress. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including Obamacare.

Claim: "Once the U.S. government signs a U.N. treaty on conventional arms, ""all U.S. citizens will be subject to those gun laws created by foreign governments."""
Evidence Summary: The bill would require individuals who are not licensed gun dealers to bring the weapon to an authorized vendor to conduct background checks of prospective purchasers. Most of the mass killings by guns in the United States in recent years took place in venues where local or state law prohibited carrying guns, even by those lawfully licensed to do so. The bill would also apply to background checks for sales or “transfers” of guns between family and friends.“Today is a day of action. We say, ‘enough is enough,’” said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.

Claim: "When Georgia tightened its voter identification laws, the state sent a van and photographer to the homes of people who needed photo IDs and made them for free."
Evidence Summary: In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. These purges, conducted against citizens for merely having missed an election or two, are a new form of voter suppression. The sight of so many Americans eagerly registering to vote was a rare bright spot in a nation where the right to representative government is under strain from onerous ID laws and computerized gerrymandering. The decision was no academic matter. Massachusetts secretary of state Bill Galvin found that the state’s voter rolls are increasingly inaccurate and prone to corruption.

Claim: "Over 40 of our 100 (House of) Delegates seats go uncontested every year, and over 40 percent of our state senate seats go uncontested every year."
Evidence Summary: Voting issues have become central to politics in key states including Florida, Georgia, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Questions about the health of American democracy are being raised in areas once thought to be wholly nonpartisan. Illinois Rep. Rodney Davis will serve as the top Republican on the subcommittee. Will: "There is power in elected members of the U.S. Congress speaking up in the interest of their constituency and the American public""There is no such thing as a free and fair election," Will says.

Claim: "Since Obamacare became law, most of our new jobs have been part-time jobs."
Evidence Summary: The share of people who have part-time positions but would prefer to work full time is higher today than it was in 2007. That decline is partly because of the aging of the baby boom generation. NBC News contacted more than 10 on-demand labor platforms, and the majority did not report an influx of people seeking work since the shutdown began. Still, news reports have chronicled government workers and contractors around the country turning to odd jobs."Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. I'm just hoping this government opens up," one man said.

Claim: "Says that in Ohio right now, you could be 8 months pregnant and have an abortion for no reason."
Evidence Summary: The bill does permit an abortion in cases of incest, rape, human trafficking, with "a copy of a restraining order, police report, medical record, or other court order or documentation" The bill also strikes "fetus" from current abortion-related laws replacing the word with "unborn human being" The latest decision, issued on Jan. 22 in the Polk County District Court, deemed it unconstitutional in the face of the state's laws. Opponents noted that a fetal heartbeat can sometimes be detected as early as six weeks into a pregnancy, at which point some women may not know they are pregnant.

Claim: "In some states, it is still legal to deny a woman coverage because she's been the victim of domestic violence."
Evidence Summary: Violence Against Women Act lapse is part of government shutdown. Domestic violence affects 1 in 4 women and 1 in 7 men, according to the national hotline. Restoring nonphysical violence to the definition of domestic violence is critical. A call to the police may make a survivor less safe if, for example, doing so intensifies the abuser’s anger or the arrest of a primary breadwinner renders her homeless, an advocate says. The assumption that domestic violence must involve a criminal justice response demonstrates a myopic understanding of abuse, she says.

Claim: "Of every three dollars in food stamps for the needy, seven dollars in salaries and pensions (go to) the bureaucrats who are supposed to be taking care of the poor."
Evidence Summary: The current administration is making an end-run around Congress to impose draconian, complex work requirements for food stamps. Government-imposed hunger is a sadist’s punishment, but it fits a deeply American contempt for poverty and those who suffer it. I think about how we view the rich, so often born into the aeries of luxury, as inherently deserving of their station. They’re buoyed by our admiration: “makers’ and “doers” and winners of philanthropy awards.

Claim: "Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin was right that President Barack Obamas health care bill created what would, in effect, be death panels."
Evidence Summary: Far-right conservative Ann Coulter accused Trump of proposing amnesty to people who entered the U.S. illegally. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) dismissed Trump’s DACA offer as a “non-starter’ Coulter told Lou Dobbs on Fox Business that she would rather deport Dreamers than MS-13 gang members. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn't otherwise qualify.

Claim: "Cap and trade legislation that Zack Space supported would cost the average household approximately $1,761 per year in increased energy rates."
Evidence Summary: 45 economists said a carbon tax ‘offers the most cost-effective lever to reduce carbon emissions at the scale and speed that is necessary’ The new tax would affect the price of goods or services that emit carbon, like fossil fuels. Economists said energy bills and gasoline prices would rise at first, but they called on the government to return that tax revenue directly to American citizens. “The majority of American families, including the most vulnerable, will benefit financially by receiving more in ‘carbon dividends’ than they pay in increased energy prices,” the letter said.

Claim: Jason Carters plan: increase spending by $12.5 billion.
Evidence Summary: The president is asking for $5.7 billion to build a border wall in exchange for a three-year extension on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. In what seemed to be ad-libbed remarks, he boasted that the program would “shield every city in the United States” He also re-asserted on Sunday that he's willing to declare a national emergency in order find funding to build the border wall. In a tweet, President Trump characterized Sunday's meeting as "productive," but The Associated Press says the White House did not offer budget details.

Claim: "Dan Seals has been running for office since before there were, like, iPods."
Evidence Summary: "I'm not a front-runner," Yang says. "I'm going to speak to them in this campaign" Yang says he's considering a run for the U.S. Senate in New Jersey. "We're going to have to wait and see," he says of a possible run. "There's a long way to go before we get there," he adds. "This is not the end of the road" for the country, he says, "it's the beginning of a new era"

Claim: "While many of his colleagues turned down a $2,500 pay raise ... (Jeff) Plale pocketed the extra money."
Evidence Summary: "I think you do need to get money out of politics," Gillibrand said. The CIPD and the High Pay Centre are calling for a major overhaul of how executive pay is set in the UK. The two bodies say corporate remuneration committees should be more diverse in terms of gender, ethnicity and professional background in order to combat group-think. They are also calling for long-term incentive plans, which tend to dole out performance-based bonuses every three years, to be replaced with a less complex system.

Claim: Things went wrong with the Medicare prescription D plan that George Bush rolled out.
Evidence Summary: Original Medicare usually gives you the most flexibility to choose your health care providers. It's recommended that you supplement original Medicare with a Medicare Supplement Plan. During the 2019 Medicare Advantage open enrollment period, you can:Opt out of your MA plan and switch to original Medicare.Elect a stand-alone Part D prescription drug plan if you lose prescription drug coverage due to opting out of Your MA plan.Your election becomes effective the month after you make the switch. If you're confused about Medicare, it's a good idea to find a professional who can help you.

Claim: "Last year, American oil production reached its highest level since 2003."
Evidence Summary: Oil production has been at or near record highs in all three countries. U.S. crude production stood at a record 11.7 million barrels per day in late 2018. Russian output reached a record of more than 11 million bpd in 2018. Jefferies Financial Group wrote in a note to clients and employees that the start of the year was a period of “extreme disarray” and that “the future doesn’t feel as certain and optimistic, and the path forward does not seem as clear”

Claim: [Eighty-five percent] of the funds collected in each county will be redistributed elsewhere -- not spent in the county in which it is collected.
Evidence Summary: The Southern Center for Human Rights says that the policy “invites public corruption.” Critics say the state law allowing sheriffs to pocket taxpayer funds should not apply to federal money. Entrekin runs the only country facility holding hundreds of immigrant inmates for the federal government. A local official confirmed that it’s routine for the sheriff and the county to split any unspent federal funds. Several federal statutes allow the president to reallocate certain funds. A state agency estimates it could raise up to $150 million statewide, based on 2018 assessed property values.

Claim: "In the year 2013, the Obama administration released 104,000 criminal illegal aliens. They released 196 murderers people with homicide convictions, who are here illegally."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post offered a series of “fact checks” following President Trump’s primetime address on border security. The president is right about the total number of arrests of illegal immigrants with criminal records that ICE has arrested over the past two years. But that number alone is misleading, because many of those of immigrants have very likely committed immigration-related offenses rather than violent crimes as the president is suggesting. The Washington Post tweeted in reference to the 266,000 arrests, “The number is right but misleading”

Claim: "More than 100,000 women in Texas have attempted to self-induce abortion in the past year alone."
Evidence Summary: Sarah Valliere is a family medicine physician and a fellow with Physicians for Reproductive Health. Valliere: I was a proud Texan with dreams that now felt impossible to obtain. It was freeing to learn that abortion was not only an option, but it was my option, she says. Vallier: Science has changed since Roe v. Wade, now abortion laws must change as well. It's time for Texas women to know that there's someone in their corner, Valliere says.

Claim: "Says Missouri families earning power is about $5,000 less today than it was at the turn of the century."
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. Over this same period, the median Black family saw their wealth drop by more than half. Meanwhile, the number of households with $10m or more skyrocketed by 856%. If the trajectory of the past three decades continues, by 2050 the median white family will have $174,000 of wealth, while Latino median wealth will be just $8,600 – and Black median wealth to head downward to $600.

Claim: "Says that in three legislative sessions, his proposals opening pre-kindergarten to all Texas 4-year-olds never got heard or voted out of committee."
Evidence Summary: The Texas Legislature returns Tuesday, and unlike places such as Colorado and Minnesota where Democrats seized control of legislative chambers in November's midterm elections, Republicans remain firmly in power. Texas' last legislative session ended with one lawmaker threatening to shoot another after reporting Hispanic protesters to immigration agents. The region voted overwhelmingly to re-elect state senator Kel Seliger, deemed the most centrist Republican in the Texas state senate, against two primary opponents pushing an extremist platform. “The country needs to be run as a business not by a politician,” says Celie Locke who backed Trump almost as soon as he announced his candidacy.

Claim: "\u201CThirty-four percent of Hispanics don\u2019t have any health care at all, don\u2019t have any health insurance.\u201D"
Evidence Summary: Clinics are torn between informing patients about the potential risks and scaring them into dropping their coverage or avoiding care. "We are walking a fine line," says Tara McCollum Plese, chief external affairs officer at the Arizona Alliance for Community Health Centers. "Until there is confirmation this indeed is going to be the policy, we don’t want to add to the angst and the concern," she says. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey found.

Claim: "Says when New Jersey adopted guaranteed coverage and cost provisions without a mandate individual health insurance market rates doubled or tripled and enrollment dropped from 180,000 people to 80,000 people."
Evidence Summary: 7.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. New Jersey requires all residents to have health insurance or pay a penalty. Vermont has offered to pay remote workers to move to the state for $10,000 each to promote economic growth. The state has earmarked $500,000 for the initiative, The Associated Press reported. It’s the second state in the country, after Massachusetts, to enact an individual health insurance mandate.

Claim: "Says U.S. Rep. Sean Duffy is among seven Tea Party freshmen who spent an average of $15,000 on cars for themselves."
Evidence Summary: The fundraising arm of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus doled out hundreds of thousands of dollars for luxury hotels, nightclubs and tickets to Las Vegas events during the 2018 election cycle. Hannity is losing it over progressive Democrats’ Green New Deal, a policy proposal that would push the country toward 100 percent renewable energy over about a decade. He is particularly upset about an idea from freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to finance the plan by introducing a marginal tax rate of up to 70 percent for the nation's wealthiest people.

Claim: "In 1916, the U.S. government predicted that by the 1940s all paper would come from hemp and that no more trees would need to be cut down."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. increased its carbon dioxide emissions in 2018, and a large part of the reason was substantial economic growth. James Rainey: The Green New Deal proposes that by 2030, we generate all our electricity from renewable sources. He says America must serve as a global advocate and exemplar, rejoin the Paris Accord and take the lead in inventing and sharing green technology.Rainey: Environmental politics is challenging, and taking America green would involve short-term dislocation. But Americans have faced tough challenges before — a depression, two global wars.

Claim: "(Newt Gingrich) voted in favor of establishing the Department of Education, and yet he gets in a debate and says we should get rid of the Department of Education and send all the education issues back to the states."
Evidence Summary: Ron DeSantis will be sworn in as Florida’s 46th governor on Tuesday. Many of his picks for his new administration have, predictably, followed his predecessor's brand of hardline conservatism. For reasons best known to their psychiatrists, Republicans remain obsessed with former secretary of State Hillary Clinton's email system. If stupid and careless handling of government records is a crime to the GOP, President George W. Bush's attorney general Alberto Gonzales set a world record in this category. So, find ways to cut the federal dole to “taker” states and return more money to ‘maker’ states (and start by restoring the State and Local Tax Deduction)

Claim: "(Mary) Burke was a senior member of the Doyle administration that left Wisconsin with 130,000 fewer jobs."
Evidence Summary: The FBI carried out a second search of Burke’s City Hall office on Dec.13. Known for his bold pinstripe suits, throwback style and a love of Chicago lore, Burke was first elected as the ward's Democratic committeeman in July 1968. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide.

Claim: "Says Romney tax plan could take away middle-class deductions for child care, mortgages and college tuition."
Evidence Summary: In Illinois, 76 percent of respondents to a Paul Simon Public Policy Institute poll expressed support for an extra 3-percent tax on income over $1 million. Romney spent the bulk of his business career at a firm called Bain Capital. Romney’s win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump. The idea that wealth “trickles down” from the richest to those less privileged has been bashed by none other than billionaire investor Warren Buffett.

Claim: "Since 1978, California has spent $5 billion to put 13 people to death."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Gavin Newsom wants to spend $10 million this year and $50 million next year. He wants the expenses to eventually be covered by Californians through a “relatively modest’ fee on their monthly phone bills. Newsom also wants to fund mental health services for first responders and hire more firefighters. A day earlier, Newsom pushed a sweeping new health care agenda for California that would offer dramatically more benefits to illegal immigrants and help protect the Affordable Care Act. Some are already speculating that Newsom may be the most progressive governor in state history.

Claim: "U.S. forces in Iraq and Afghanistan include a ""few thousand that are still green card holders who are not even citizens of this country."""
Evidence Summary: Defense officials declined to comment on the memos, saying the new policy is undergoing legal reviews. The documents reveal how the Pentagon is grappling with the dual challenge of thoroughly screening prospective recruits. The Armed Forces have long sought green-card holders as recruits, marketing such jobs as a chance to attain U.S. citizenship. The new initiative comes as the Trump administration continues to take unprecedented steps to curb immigration to the United States. "Foreign nationals, including those with [green-card] status, raise unique counterintelligence and counterterrorism concerns," the memo says.

Claim: We dont take a dime from D.C. lobbyists or special-interest PACs -- never have and never will.
Evidence Summary: Several newly elected House Democrats have vowed to stop taking money from lobbyists. The move is against the grain of how things have traditionally been done in Washington. The lobbying, consulting and corporate-funded think tank industries boomed over the past three decades as Congress gutted itself. Corporations actually spend more money on lobbying in Washington than Congress spends total, according to a study by New America fellow Lee Drutman. Many Democrats who are potential presidential candidates in 2020 have already promised to stop accepting corporate PAC donations.

Claim: "Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries."
Evidence Summary: There’s a gap of more than two decades between the part of the city with the lowest life expectancy, 64, and the highest, 87. Her seven-year-old daughter has already learned to look out for needles in the street. “We have to help ourselves because nobody's going to come help us,” Pagan said.“If the problem is concentrated in a relatively small set of people, then thinking about the interventions that would be most effective for those people is going to take us a lot farther.”

Claim: "In the past four years, (the U.S. Senate) has only passed nine out of 48 appropriation bills."
Evidence Summary: McConnell's sprinting ahead with first real action on government funding since December 19. Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Richard Shelby, R-Ala. and McConnell released the 1,301-page bill Monday night. McConnell hopes to get consent to start debate on the bill Tuesday. Congress voted overwhelmingly to override President Barack Obama’s veto of a bill that allowed families of the victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to sue the government of Saudi Arabia last year.. The top Democrat on the Senate. Appropriations Committee predicted that a bill funding the government that did not. include money for a wall would pass “overwhelmingly” if it was allowed to come to the floor.

Claim: "About 750,000 people die in China each year from auto emissions."
Evidence Summary: Of the 2bn vehicles operating worldwide, an estimated 40m reach end-of-life every year. There are no uniform emissions standards worldwide, so low-income countries end up bearing the brunt of air pollution from inefficient used vehicles. China cut average concentrations of hazardous particles known as PM2.5 to an average of 39 micrograms per cubic meter last year, down 9.3 percent from 2017. However, average emission levels remain significantly higher than China’s own 35-microgram standard, as well as the 10- microgram limit recommended by the WHO.

Claim: "In three days last week, (Gov. Rick) Perry flew to five cities at taxpayers expense, holding press conferences, delivering $2,325,000 in checks."
Evidence Summary: California's new governor laid out his plans for the state in a two-hour presentation on Thursday. Newsom has spent his first days in office positioning himself as an adversary to the Trump administration. He denounced the president’s immigration and environmental policies during his swearing-in ceremony earlier this month. On his second day in office, he demanded Trump provide better wildfire support for thestate”s federal lands. The new governor, though, has declined to release personal income tax returns that could shed light on his financial holdings.

Claim: "Says Connie Macks Penny Plan would cut over $200 billion out of Medicare, over $1 trillion out of Social Security. ... $3 trillion out of defense."
Evidence Summary: Incoming Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez says Pelosi-backed principle is a "dark political maneuver designed to hamstring progress on healthcare" Pelosi deputy chief of staff Drew Hammill fired back, tweeting: "A vote AGAINST the Democratic Rules package is a vote to let [Director of the Office of Management and Budget] Mick Mulvaney make across the board cuts, unilaterally reversing Democratic initiatives and funding increases" Veterans Affairs is preparing to shift billions of dollars from government-run veterans’ hospitals to private health care providers.

Claim: "Says a recent study shows Florida students are second in the world in fourth grade reading, behind Singapore."
Evidence Summary: In an age of great polarization, it is imperative to stay informed of the facts, all the facts. The best way to overcome miscommunication between opposing parties is to delve into the perspective of the other side. Diversify your news sources and stay informed on all prominent topics in the world. An article about the economic strategy devised by President Moon Jae-in of South Korea misstated Mr. Moon’s approval rating in the most recent Gallup poll. It was 45 percent, not 46 percent.

Claim: "For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses closing than starting."
Evidence Summary: U.S. small business owners are more optimistic than at any point in history. Since President Trump was elected, new business applications have increased by 16 percent. "Growth is going to come to an end, either suddenly or in a controlled way," says one small business owner. "The thing that businesses hate is uncertainty, and we've got a lot of it," says another. "We're worse now than in the past, and that's a good thing," says a third.

Claim: "According to The Book of Revelations the anti-christ ... will be a man, in his 40s, of MUSLIM descent ... is it OBAMA??"
Evidence Summary: Eighty per cent of white evangelicals voted for him in 2016, and his popularity among them is remains in the 70s. Some leading evangelicals see Trump as a latterday King Cyrus, the sixth-century BC Persian emperor who liberated the Jews from Babylonian captivity. In a 2015 poll, 73% of evangelical Christians said events in Israel are prophesied in the Book of Revelation. The relationship between evangelicals and the president himself is complicated by the fact that they are both white and white nationalist.

Claim: "With the exception of slavery and the Chinese Exclusion Act, our laws have never barred persons from becoming citizens."
Evidence Summary: “Anyone who comes here must be subject to our laws and customs, and must sing our national anthem and respect our culture.” Barrack Obama, 2005. “We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected, undocumented, unchecked...” Trump wrote on Sunday, quoting the former president in 2005. Obama made the remarks at a press conference with then-Florida GOP Sen. Mel Martinez, as part of a bipartisan effort to address illegal immigration. "We all agree on the need to better secure the border and to punish employers who choose to hire illegal immigrants," Obama added.

Claim: "If voters agree in November to approve a one-cent sales tax increase, that will give ""Hillsborough County the highest sales tax of all Florida counties."""
Evidence Summary: If the referendum is approved, the additional $10 million in bonds would cost the owner of a $500,000 house an estimated additional $22 in property taxes a year. Because South Elgin is not a home rule municipality, it cannot increase a tax rate without voter support. If the measure passes, the new tax would go into effect some time between July and December. For the average consumer, the increase adds an extra penny on $1 in purchases or 50 cents for every $100 spent.

Claim: "For 21 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, we simply do not have data to say anything about trends in poverty."
Evidence Summary: Oxfam says the rate of poverty reduction in Sub-Saharan Africa has halved since 2013. The poorest 50% of humanity only captured 12 cents in every dollar of global income growth. By contrast, the top 1% captured 27 cents of every dollar. The World Inequality Report 2018 – co-authored by Piketty – showed that between 1980 and 2016 the number of poor has increased dramatically since 1980, and today stands at about 4.2 billion people. Oxfam said that in addition to tackling inequality at home, developed nations currently failing to meet their overseas aid commitments could raise the missing billions.

Claim: "Health reform will ""give every American the same opportunity"" to buy health insurance the way members of Congress do."
Evidence Summary: A majority (56%) supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS], called Medicare-for-all. Large majorities on both sides supported “buy-ins” to existing government-run health plans. Two-thirds of Republicans and wide margins of Democrats and independents supported the proposals. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services. The insurance industry would be regulated to play a minor role in the system.

Claim: "Donald Trump rooted for the housing crisis, because he knew he could make money off of it."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump has been accused of being a poor deal-maker. He stopped using proven techniques after becoming a celebrity in the mid-1980s. This led to multiple poor negotiations in which he overpaid by tens of millions for assets. Many of his best real-estate deals were actually put in place by Roy Cohn, the legendary attorney who was Trump’s original fixer, writes University of Pennsylvania Wharton School professor G. Richard Shell in a piece for the issue of The Wall Street Journal.

Claim: "The CDC is spending money on things like jazzercise, urban gardening and massage therapy that could be redirected to Ebola."
Evidence Summary: The last time there was an extended interruption to the Ebola response, the number of cases surged. Rebel attacks in the Ebola-afflicted region and community resistance to outside help have impeded the medical response from the start. “I think [the responders] are hanging on by a thread,” said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center, a program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. "It’s just important we stay the course and that we don’t lose confidence we can finish this," said Ryan.

Claim: "When I was fighting against cap and trade, the speaker was sitting down with Nancy Pelosi on a sofa encouraging it."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi is described by friends and foes alike as a master legislative strategist. The first woman elected Speaker of the House in 2007, she was a fierce critic of then-President George W. Bush. Pelosi rounded up Democratic votes to help him pass an economic bailout package in 2008. She delivered the votes for the Affordable Care Act in 2010, which Republicans derisively called Obamacare. "The impression you get from the president [is] that he would like to not only close government, build a wall, but also abolish Congress," she said.

Claim: "In the past year, Floridians, not government, created almost 135,000 new private sector jobs. We netted more than 120,000 total jobs in the first 11 months of 2011; the third most of any state in the nation."
Evidence Summary: Health care and education services added 82,000 jobs in December, the biggest jump since February 2012. Restaurants and drinking placed posted a net gain of 40,700 jobs. Builders added 38,000 construction jobs, while manufacturers increased their payrolls by 32,000 workers. There are now 6.9 million unfilled jobs in the country, surpassing the number of people unemployed last year for the first time in history. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion.

Claim: "Says that when Republicans held Congress and the presidency, they doubled the size of the (U.S.) Department of Education."
Evidence Summary: Illinois higher ed’s idea of reinventing itself for the present and future doesn’t go much beyond asking for, yes, more money from taxpayers. “I’m just conservative in my values and views and a lot of the things Mr Trump believes, I agree with,” said Miami Independent School District principal Mark Driskell. Public education is central to Roberts County, Texas’ continued prosperity. � “If we lose the school, we’d lose the town.”

Claim: "My friend, we have increased the size of government by some 40 percent just in the last few years."
Evidence Summary: "I'm obsessed to know how the system works," she said. “We’ve made a lot of progress.” "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to," she added. "Believe it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about," the president said. "I’m obsessed toknow how thesystem works," said the president. "We”ve been meeting for two weeks. It’s why we met yesterday with the vice president and the team for several hours"

Claim: "In New York, when she ran for reelection, she carried 58 of our 62 counties. George Bush had won 40 counties in New York just two years earlier."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand was the surprise gubernatorial pick to temporarily fill the Seate seat Hillary Clinton gave up to become then-President Barack Obama’s secretary of state. Gillibrand easily won a 2010 special election for the seat, and in 2012 she won a full term with 72 percent of the vote. She noted that outside of New York City, the state largely consists of moderate “purple” and conservative “red” pockets. She even managed to make the case that her subsequent Senate wins in New York had further honed her political skills.

Claim: "Six years after unionization, 20,000 fewer children in Illinois were being served by the Child Care and Development Fund program."
Evidence Summary: For the fifth straight year, the state lost more residents than it gained. The largest public-sector unions argued Friday that the new numbers indicate the efforts to undermine unions have failed to gain traction. The state owes $7.4 billion in unpaid bills. The CTU never has been a player in trying to restructure the state’s school funding formula that punished property-poor communities. It played little to no role in the reform bill that became law after 25 years of advocacy from those outside the system.

Claim: "John McCain and George W. Bush want to spend ""a trillion dollars in Iraq over the next 10 years."""
Evidence Summary: More than two dozen House members, including Reps. Jim Banks (R-Ind) and Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del), were spotted at a birthday party for Heather Podesta at Chloe last night. Some aviation experts say the Afghans will rely on American maintenance and other support for years. “Such dependence could complicate President Trump’s moves to extricate the United States from the 17-year-old war against Taliban insurgents,” David Zucchino writes.

Claim: "Says Justice Elena Kagan recused herself in many cases where she had little role as solicitor general, simply because of the appearance of a conflict of interest."
Evidence Summary: Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has no remaining signs of cancer. She will continue to work from home next week, the court said Friday. Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. announced that she would participate in the day’s two cases by reviewing the transcripts of the arguments. The question in the arbitration case, Henry Schein Inc. v. Archer & White Sales Inc., No. 17-1272, was who should decide whether a dispute should be resolved through arbitration rather than litigation.

Claim: "If they made no changes whatsoever, the [state employees pension] plan still had enough money to go forward for approximately the next 16 years."
Evidence Summary: Overhaul future pension commitments, says Robert L. Johnson. Illinois constitution won't allow existing pensions to be diminished or impaired, he says. This is the only realistic path toward pulling the state’s head above water, he writes. Johnson: A city in desperate condition with a very dark future. We need answers, not nonanswers."Many growing businesses like ours are continuing to invest in the future regardless," says a company official. "For us as a company, we'll survive. But for the individuals — and really that's what this all about"

Claim: "Oil companies ""haven't touched"" 68 million acres where they already have rights to drill."
Evidence Summary: Thousands of shale wells drilled in the last five years are pumping less oil and gas than their owners forecast to investors. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. Since the 2010 Deepwater Horizon incident, the oil and natural gas industry has updated or implemented more than 100 regulations governing offshore exploration and production. The Obama White House vehemently opposed opening up these territories, subjecting development requests to endless delays.

Claim: Says President Barack Obama failed to stand up for the bipartisan debt solutions of the Simpson-Bowles Commission.
Evidence Summary: The panel discussed the political fallout from Tuesday’s speeches and the showdown over border security. They also discussed the possibility of the longest government shutdown in U.S. history. The panel also discussed how Rep. Joe Wilson, R-S.C., hectored President Obama during a speech to a Joint Session of Congress in September, 2009, shouting “you lie!” The House didn’t vote to reprimand or censure Wilson for his outburst, but Pelosi has wrestled with disciplining members of the opposite party.

Claim: "Phoenix, Arizona, Im told, is now the No. 2 kidnapping capital in the world, right behind Mexico City."
Evidence Summary: Last year Ciudad Juárez suffered a sudden surge in homicides: 1,247 – a rate of 96 per 100,000. Violent crimes have fallen sharply from about 6,500 in 1993 to around 3,000 today. Border Patrol's Yuma sector made 7,857 arrests in October and November, more than double the same period a year earlier. The southwest Arizona desert is less remote but arrests have also sharply increased after years of relative quiet. Large numbers of Guatemalan families and unaccompanied children are surrendering to immigration agents in Antelope Wells.

Claim: On the main GOP presidential debate:Not one candidate on the debate stage has military experience
Evidence Summary: Pentagon chief of staff Kevin Sweeney resigns to return to the private sector. President Donald Trump’s national security adviser, John Bolton, said Sunday that the U.S. military withdrawal from northeastern Syria is conditioned on defeating the remnants of the Islamic State group. Sen. Elizabeth Warren is the first major candidate to land on the ground in the first-in-the-nation presidential caucus state of Iowa. New DCCC chair Bustos vows to stay on offense in 2020.

Claim: "As governor, Mike Huckabee supported higher income taxes, sales taxes, gas taxes, grocery taxes, tobacco taxes, beer taxes, Internet taxes, nursing home bed taxes."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez schooling the recently ousted governor that his analogy was completely wrong and proving that her Twitter game remains supreme. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. Did you tell them about how you lost the election but tried to strip the incoming governor of his power or did you leave that out? — Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) January 15, 2019I don't know which is worse — that Walker doesn’t understand marginal tax rates OR he is outright lying to 5th graders.

Claim: "As a percentage of gross domestic product, we are reducing nondefense discretionary spending to its lowest level since the '60s, lower than it was under Reagan, lower than it was under Clinton, lower than it was under Bush, or both Bushes."
Evidence Summary: If the country’s condition is calibrated simply by economic data, then the state of the union is good. Except that after two years of unified government under the party that formerly claimed to care about fiscal facts and rectitude, the nation faces a $1 trillion deficit. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles — if he has, his modesty would not have prevented him from mentioning it — the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The president has kept his promise not to address the unsustainable trajectory of the entitlement state.

Claim: "Live cats have holes drilled into their skulls, posts put into their heads and coils put into their eyes, and some have had their ears cut off or are intentionally deafened or starved at UW-Madison labs that do research to improve hearing in humans."
Evidence Summary: Scientists used computerised scans of fossils and modern animals to create digital models of the inner ears of 36 types of carnivoran, including six extinct species. Size of three bony canals in the inner ear, the organ that controls balance and hearing, changed over millions of years as animals adopted different hunting styles. Inner ear structure indicates whether a species descended from dog-like animals or animals resembling cats. Faster predators, such as cheetahs, lions and wolves, developed large ear canals that enabled them to keep their head and vision stable.

Claim: "Says Ron Johnson is benefiting from several super PACs, I am not."
Evidence Summary: The second saw more than three-quarters of newly elected congressional Democrats pledge to say no to corporate PACs. The performance of candidates like former Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-Texas) established the political potency of swearing off super and corporate PACs, although not without some pushback. End Citizens United, a political action committee that rallied congressional candidates to swear off corporate PAC donations, is hoping to convince Democratic candidates in 2020 to do the same. Many Democrats who are potential presidential candidates in2020 have already promised to stop accepting super PAC donations.

Claim: "One international flight a day in a wide-bodied jet ... one flight daily generates $150 million a year and approximately 2,300 jobs."
Evidence Summary: U.S. commercial air carriers transported about 880 million passengers and 42 billion ton-miles of freight in 2018. All you’d need would be a couple of drones at the high-altitude end of the market. A couple of geeky IT types getting paid the minimum wage. Then you might qualify for a grant or MoD stipend to conduct missions over foreign airports. We look forward to working with the 116th Congress to boost our economy, create jobs and lower our trade deficit.

Claim: "Mitt Romney did not endorse Ted Cruz, even though he said he is voting for Cruz and urged others to do likewise."
Evidence Summary: Romney voiced his support for Trump's Republican rival, Sen. Ted Cruz, in March 2016. In the Utah nominating caucus, Romney said he'd vote for Cruz, despite Trump being the clear front-runner of his party. Romney was happy to accept Trump’s endorsements during his presidential run in 2012 and in his race for the Senate last year. Yet just as soon as Trump won the presidency, Romney opportunistically changed his tune, prostrating himself before the president-elect in a desperate attempt to be named his new secretary of state.

Claim: "Says the health care law rations care, like systems in Canada and Great Britain."
Evidence Summary: In Canada, medical care is publicly funded and universally provided through the country's Provincial Ministry of Health. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic. Kate Andrews from the free market think tank the Institute of Economic Affairs says it is time to look at a radically different way of running health services in a personal film for the Daily Politics soapbox series.

Claim: "Says the Treasury Department says 41 percent of all business income reported on individual returns would be hit by the [millionaires] surtax that would harm small businessmen and women, the very people we are counting on to create new jobs."
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has proposed a 70 percent marginal tax rate on America's highest earners. The Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy found that a 1 percent wealth tax on the wealthiest 0.1 percent of Americans would raise $1.3 trillion over a decade. But conservatives have warned that high taxes on the very rich will stifle growth, lead to capital flight, and produce relatively minor revenue gains. The Tax Foundation has also warned against wealth taxes, arguing that "capital accumulation is an essential ingredient for economic growth"

Claim: "I led the fight to require the Coast Guard to buy their engines from us, not foreign companies."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "Let's see who gets tired first: Those who steal the fuel or us," he adds. "My daddy ended up as a janitor and I had a chance to become a public school teacher, a college professor, and a united states senator. I am grateful to America down to my toes, but I am also determined."

Claim: "On Sandra Day O'Connor: ""I think one reason she was a good judge is she had no judicial experience"" before she joined the Supreme Court."
Evidence Summary: Lady Hale called for a more balanced gender representation on the UK’s highest court as well as swifter progress promoting those from minority ethnic backgrounds. Women working in law and other professions are increasingly aware and resentful of earning less than men, she said. She also described the compulsory retirement age of 70 for judges as a “waste of talent’ Judge Wald was a pioneer for women in law, rising from a working-class Irish family to enter the legal profession at a time when women were a rare presence.

Claim: "In Massachusetts, half of the primary care doctors are not accepting new patients."
Evidence Summary: While 81 percent of white patients were diagnosed at a BICOE facility, only 46 percent of black patients and 49 percent of Hispanic patients were. “To have two health care systems in a city like Chicago is disgraceful,” said study co-author Richard Warnecke. The recruitment of 520 GPs to such places is a piece of rare good news for NHS chiefs. The number of family doctors overall in England is falling, despite the government pledging in 2015 to increase it by 5,000 by 2020.

Claim: "He took on special interests and won, passing the toughest ethics law yet."
Evidence Summary: "Whatever happens, I'm always going to know that fact. Even if I have to spend the rest of my life convincing the administration, or whoever comes next" "I have the biggest anti-corruption proposals since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington, you think?" "I will not be bullied into doing anything I think is wrong by anybody, whether it be editorial boards, the Congress or the president. I’m going to do what I Think is right"

Claim: "Since 1999, 440 people have been killed in attacks on church property in the United States."
Evidence Summary: Based on the 17 incidents that the ADL included in their report, which resulted in 50 deaths, the group concludes that right-wing extremists killed more people in 2018 than any year since 1995 when the Oklahoma City bombings took place. Every one of the perpetrators had ties to at least oneright-wing extremist movement, although one had recently switched to supporting Islamist extremism. 42 of the 50 deaths were the result of guns, according to the report.“If you had told officials after 9/11 that in the next 17 years there would be only 104 deaths from terrorist attacks in the United States, they would have raised a glass of Champagne,” Daniel Byman, a terrorism expert at Georgetown University, said.

Claim: "We are in the sixth year of recovery, and median income is below what it was at the start of the recovery."
Evidence Summary: "Fertility rates haven't recovered as much as we had expected," she said. "That suggests a lot about how people feel in terms of their own personal lives" The Washington, D.C. area, is one of the most expensive regions in the country to live, she says. "Many of the people who worked alongside me are also suffering," she adds. "It will not be easy for us during this time of uncertainty," she says, "but we are lucky to have some savings"

Claim: "Under the federal Controlled Substance Act, marijuana is listed in the same Schedule I as heroin, even though marijuana is not a killer drug like heroin."
Evidence Summary: Douglas Berman, an Ohio State University law professor and creator of the influential Sentencing Law and Policy blog, said, “The simple answer is yes, I think it will help.” But, Berman said, while the epidemic was sparked by people abusing opioids prescribed by doctors, the most recent death data suggests that is fast becoming less of a problem. “Overdose deaths of recent vintage are due to cocaine and meth mixed with fentanyl,” he said. Berman is far from being the only expert waiting to see whether medical marijuana will have any effect on the opioid crisis.

Claim: "As a result of Obamacare, we are becoming something of a part-time employment country."
Evidence Summary: There are still Americans who either do not have jobs or are not clocking as many hours as they would like. The share of people who have part-time positions but would prefer to work full time is higher today than it was in 2007. The banking crash, sluggish pay growth and insecurity of the gig economy are fuelling a broader sense that “there’s something wrong with the way work operates,” says Harper. “We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.”

Claim: "Oregon Rep. Tina Kotek, D-Portland, has never held a job nor run a business"
Evidence Summary: Kaohly Her, 45, is a first-time candidate for the Minnesota House seat in her predominantly white and affluent neighborhood in St. Paul. Gelser told investigators about a conversation she had with Speaker of the House Tina Kotek, who allegedly told her that Republicans were less likely to take action on her complaint because she’s not “very likable” The internet worked itself into a tizzy on Tuesday after a Twitter user posted what appeared to be a Klobuchar 2020 campaign logo he said he found at a Washington, D.C. coffee shop.

Claim: Its estimated we leave somewhere north of $350 billion a year - thats billion - a year on the table uncollected because IRS doesnt have the resources.
Evidence Summary: In 2018, the IRS paid more than $212 billion in refunds in the first three months of the year, an average of almost $2,900. Former Commissioner John Koskinen said for some low-income taxpayers, their refund is a big deal, calling it "the biggest financial event in the year" The IRS may decide to bring back some of its furloughed workers as the tax-filing season nears. Lawmakers can’t even agree on holding a congressional hearing looking into potential problems with this year’s filing season.

Claim: "The Rev. Wright compared ""the United States Marine Corps with Roman legionnaires who were responsible for the death of our Savior."""
Evidence Summary: Sandmann: "I am mortified that so many people have come to believe something that did not happen" The Marine Corps confirmed Phillips never served in the Vietnam War and wasn't deployed overseas. Sandmann: I did not do that, do not have hateful feelings in my heart, and did not witness any of my classmates doing that. The National Review compared this activist to Jesus Christ? The sacred and the secular are inextricably entwined here, as they were in Henry VIII’s break with Rome.

Claim: "Social Security was advocated in the 1930s as a way of getting people to quit working, because they thought we were confined to a permanent scarcity of jobs in this country."
Evidence Summary: After losing the election, Roosevelt continued to engage in politics through hundreds of newspaper columns and magazine articles. The social agenda of his 1912 platform lived on, inspiring progressives of both parties. With the Social Security Act of 1935, Franklin Roosevelt secured much of what his distant cousin Theodore had been striving for: old-age insurance, unemployment insurance, aid to families with dependent children, and support for the disabled. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence.

Claim: "There isnt a single (Texas) legislator under the age of 30, even though millennials make up 25 percent of the electorate in Texas."
Evidence Summary: The 116th Congress convened this week after an election that added a historic number of minorities, women and young people to government. The midterm election quintupled the number of millennials who will hold a House seat, according to the Pew Research Center. Among this new class of digital natives is New York Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, 29, who will become the youngest woman to join Congress. The Economist reports that baby boomers — those born between 1946 and 1964 — who have been the United States’ largest age cohort for more than five decades will be outnumbered by millennials.

Claim: "Langevin votes the party line about 98 percent of the time."""
Evidence Summary: Bill Shorten’s numbers follow a similar pattern. When asked if they approved or disapproved of the job he was doing as opposition leader, 35% approved (no change from last month), and 47% disapproved (up 4% points from 43%). Support among Labor voters for Shorten is not as high as support among Coalition supporters for Morrison. "I'll vote to disapprove Treasury's easing of sanctions on Russian businesses involving oligarch & Putin ally Oleg Deripaska," Republican Sen. Susan Collins tweeted.

Claim: "Says that in 2008, President Barack Obama said normalization with Cuba would first require liberation of all political prisoners and some basic steps toward freedom, including freedom of the press, political parties, labor unions."
Evidence Summary: Castro accuses "the far right" in Florida - where many Cuban exiles live - of having "confiscated US policy towards Cuba" In 2017, Mr Trump reimposed certain travel and trade restrictions eased by the previous US government. U.S. presidential administrations and many members of Congress have said the embargo will not be lifted until Cuba moves toward more democratic reforms. Cuban government officials typically deny the existence of political prisoners, saying instead that counter-revolutionary activities, or trying to incite others against the regime is a crime.

Claim: "There is no $30 million pot of money for redistricting issues, including defending redistricting lawsuits. Your tax dollars are not being spent on anything like that."
Evidence Summary: Advocates had hoped they could sway then-Justice Anthony Kennedy to their side in last year’s cases. Many are less optimistic that Justice Brett Kavanaugh would vote to strike down a congressional plan because of partisan gerrymandering. In both of last year's cases, lower courts struck down g Gerrymandered districts, saying they were so excessively drawn to benefit one political party that they violated the U.S. Constitution. “The Supreme Court has the opportunity to set a clear standard that will restore a meaningful vote to millions of Americans,” Common Cause president said.

Claim: "If you are going to kill the families of terrorists, realize that theres something called the Geneva Convention were going to have to pull out of."
Evidence Summary: "I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, or the sadness gripping their souls," he says. "How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?" he asks. "All these guys do is think and hatch plans and figure out how to get weapons. It's like a molotov cocktail waiting to explode," he adds.

Claim: "A quarter of our workers make $18,000 per year."
Evidence Summary: The proportion of the population in the labor force has risen sharply since 2012. The median earnings of all workers (both full-time and part-time) rises from $57,720 to $65,998 when only counting permanent employees. The past two years has also seen the average Earnings of all women in permanent employment rise by just 3.0% – well below inflation. It highlights that not all workers have seen low wages growth, but those with the most secure work have one average barely had real wages increase.

Claim: "Twenty-three million Americans suffer from addiction, but only 1 in 10 get treatment."
Evidence Summary: After that, the running 12-month total declined slightly each month through May 2018, before ticking up slightly to 70,652 in June 2018. In the states that didn’t expand Medicaid under Obamacare, access is very difficult for many low-income people. “It’s frustrating … like, I need help now. I’m trying not to die right now,” said Mary Early, 32, who waited three months to get treatment after calling about 20 clinics.

Claim: "Reconciliation was used ""for tax cuts for the rich twice under Bush."""
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy. What has been lost in the dust-up is that the wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations, at a cost of $1.9 trillion over 10 years. Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda that could become a reality after 2020.

Claim: "We had an agreement that the president could have signed that would have kept 10,000 troops in Iraq."
Evidence Summary: "Whatever happens, I'm always going to know that fact. Even if I have to spend the rest of my life convincing the administration, or whoever comes next," Trump said. Trump has made 7,600 false or misleading statements since he became president, and some have proved more difficult than others to fact-check. "This should have been done by all of the presidents that preceded me," he said. "And they all know it. Some of them have told me that we should have done it."

Claim: We dont show people playing these games. We dont show them winning playing the video lottery games.
Evidence Summary: Victim bought a $30 scratch-off ticket at a Lucky Grocery Store in December. He thought he had won $10,000 and shared the news with his two roommates. The next day, he went to collect his winnings, but was told it was not a winner. He suspected his roommate had stolen the winning ticket and reported it to police. The Lottery's Sacramento district office launched an investigation and found the ticket had been swapped for a loser. The winner, Adul Saosongyang, is accused of stealing his roommate's ticket.

Claim: "The states tax burden has, according to census figures released today, cost our state another 190,000 residents in 2009."
Evidence Summary: The exodus from two of the nation’s biggest Blue States continues, according to new numbers from the U.S. Census Bureau. Many Red States, meanwhile, continue to gain population, the figures show. The biggest population losers between July 2017 and July 2018 were the high-tax, Democrat-controlled states of New York and Illinois. In that one-year span, New York lost more than 48,000 residents, while Illinois’ population declined by more than 45,000.

Claim: "A gas tax holiday ""would at best provide 30 cents a day for three months for a grand total of $28."""
Evidence Summary: 45 economists said a carbon tax “offers the most cost-effective lever to reduce carbon emissions at the scale and speed that is necessary” The new tax would affect the price of goods or services that emit carbon, like fossil fuels. Economists said energy bills and gasoline prices would rise at first, but they called on the government to return that tax revenue directly to American citizens. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has proposed an increase of 30 cents per gallon to one of the nation’s highest gas taxes.

Claim: "Florida is one of the few states that has actually had a narrowing of the achievement gap based on income, or based on race or ethnicity."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State graduates more black students than any other nonprofit educational institution in the U.S. Minority students make up 71 percent of its student body. Nearly 60 percent of Georgia State’s students are eligible for Pell Grants, meaning many come from households making $40,000 or less. Microsoft founder Bill Gates has visited the campus to see the data in action, as have Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and John B. King Jr., the Education secretary before her.“We want our schools to improve and we’ll do anything we can to help.”

Claim: "Ted Strickland stands in lockstep with Hillary Clinton and the abortion lobby in their desire to force Americans to pay for abortion on demand, up until the moment of birth, with their taxpayer dollars."
Evidence Summary: With Democrats now in control of the U.S. House of Representatives, it might appear that the fight over abortion rights has become a standoff. But those on both sides of the debate insist that won’t be the case. One would not require health providers to provide an abortion procedure if the provider objected on “ethical, moral or religious grounds” Another “repeals the statutes authorizing and regulating abortion” and states “human physical life begins when a human ovum is fertilized by a human sperm”

Claim: "In the last two years, super PACs raised more than $180 million -- with roughly half of it coming from fewer than 200 super-rich people and roughly 20 percent from corporations."
Evidence Summary: Democratic presidential hopefuls promise not to boost their candidacies through outside groups with cash from wealthy donors, sometimes given secretly. A new report says the party received most of the so-called “dark money’ spent on political ads in the 2018 midterms. Liberal groups accounted for 54% of the $150 million in dark-money spending in last year’s election cycle, conservative groups 31% and nonpartisan or bipartisan groups 15%. All told, nonprofits that don’t disclose their donors have invested almost $1 billion in political ads and messaging.

Claim: "ISIS is right now crucifying Christians in Iraq, literally nailing Christians to trees."
Evidence Summary: The Islamic Republic of Iran unleashed yet another crackdown on the country’s struggling Christian minority before and after Christmas. The Iranian group Alliance for Rights of All Minorities reported on December 30 that “nine Christians were arrested in Karaj, Iran on alleged charges of affiliation with Christian Zionists and recruitment of Muslims to home churches.” The mass arrests were meant to intimidate Christians into not spreading their faith during the Christmas period.“I saw this in Iraq. And I'm now seeing it in Syria," said Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham.

Claim: "Research found that over the course of the existence of the Brady Bill ban, the use of assault weapons in crimes decreased by two thirds."
Evidence Summary:  firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, but 60 percent were suicides. In recent years, many states have relaxed their concealed carry laws, on the theory that concealed-gun carriers deter crime. There is no credible evidence that permissive laws prevent or deter crime, says Stanford researcher John Donohue. States that passed right-to-carry laws experienced 13 to 15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates, over a period of 10 years, than comparable states, he says. The Brady Campaign is perhaps one of the oldest gun violence prevention movements in the US.

Claim: "Tyler Perrys plan to turn a majority of the former Fort McPherson into a film and television studio is expected to add over 8,000 new jobs to Atlanta."
Evidence Summary: “I hope they budgeted,” the owner of Alec’s Sports Bar, who goes by his initials A.B., shrugged after the group left his all-wood bar, lined with televisions turned to Fox News and sports. Radtke said the plans currently call for the construction to cost about $1 million, with work beginning in the spring. He also confirmed plans to add factory capacity to build larger 3-row Jeep SUVs that are in the works.

Claim: "When the NECAP proficiency test is re-given to the kids the second and third time, harder questions are taken out."
Evidence Summary: An administrative review judge concluded the school failed to follow established testing procedures. Investigators looked at the unusual number of answers changed afterwards by teachers. Such problems were so rare statewide — an estimated 41 of 70,000 sessions — that eight violations found at McCullough that year raised suspicions. "It's really easy to teach to the test, (but) that doesn't help the kids grow or be part of the community," says Cullen Murphy, 44, who teaches seventh-grade math and science at East Hills Middle School.

Claim: "When you get a commercial pilots license, you learn to communicate in English no matter where you are in the world."
Evidence Summary: "Obviously, if you would like to make your journey by flying commercial, that would certainly be your prerogative," Trump added in the letter. “Anyone who comes here must be subject to our laws and customs, and must sing our national anthem and respect our culture,” he said.“I just ask that you not get frustrated or awkward and turn away if the translation comes haltingly, or if the truth proves to be more than you wanted," he added.

Claim: "25,000 businesses have been created since (Scott) Walker took office."
Evidence Summary: Walker didn't deliver on his signature 2010 campaign promise to create 250,000 private-sector jobs in his first term. There were failures and distractions along the way. They include making Wisconsin a right-to-work state and requiring a photo ID to vote. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in up to 13,000 new jobs and a $10 billion investment. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor.

Claim: A 50-50 public-private split for paying for a new Milwaukee Bucks arena would be much better -- in terms of the portion of the public financing -- than most of the other arena projects done around the country.
Evidence Summary: Publicly owned real estate and other commercial assets could yield more resources than most cities’ total current investment in infrastructure. Managing city assets better will help local leaders boost the economy. This is the exact opposite outcome of the drain of Chicago’s parking meter transaction. It is time to use public wealth in Chicago for the public good. If this happens, then all Chicagoans stand to benefit. The changing of the guard in state government is happening even before the governor and state lawmakers are sworn in.

Claim: "Americas gun-related homicide rate would be about the same as Belgiums if you left out California, Illinois, D.C. and New Jersey, places with some of the strictest gun control laws in the U.S."
Evidence Summary: Two of the five worst mass shootings in recent U.S. history occurred in 2017. Suicides made up more than half the total. States that passed right-to-carry laws experienced 13 to 15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates, over a period of 10 years. There is virtually no evidence to support the idea that expanding access to firearms increases individual safety and security, says Yvonne Smith, Evanston, Illinois. The government cheerfully calls these venues “gun-free zones.” They should be called killing zones.

Claim: There are more pain clinics in Broward County than there are McDonalds in Broward County.
Evidence Summary: Opioid-related deaths have nearly tripled in Kane County in recent years. The more opioid-related marketing dollars were spent in a county, the higher the rates of doctors who prescribed those drugs. The opioid epidemic remains the biggest American public health crisis in decades, arguably since the emergence of AIDS. It kills about 130 people a day in the U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) The CDC and NIDA are working together to address the problem.

Claim: "Says military commanders have said that if Donald Trump were elected, they would not follow his orders."
Evidence Summary: Trump promised Americans the following: "I will never send our finest into battle unless necessary, and I mean absolutely necessary" In business, there's a saying: "Disagree and commit" It means that everyone should speak up before a decision is made. But once the boss has decided, you all get behind it to make it happen. With these generals, it was less disagree and commit than disagree and resist. Trump insists that he would have been a good general. Does he even understand what that entails? Cowards do not make good military leaders.

Claim: "The market is making this decision. The market has driven down the cost of coal, so you have companies going bankrupt."
Evidence Summary: Northern Indiana Public Service Co. planned to retire two of its five remaining coal-fired power plants by 2023. Now, it plans to do away with all of them over the next decade, and buy more solar and wind power instead. “Coal is one of the dirtiest fossil fuels and it belongs in the history books, not in an energy system for the 21st century. Our energy future must be based on energy-saving and renewable energy, not on more fossil fuels,” he added.

Claim: "Alison Alter has exploited a campaign finance loophole to obtain over $64,000 in public dollars to fund her campaign."
Evidence Summary: Elizabeth Warren is positioning herself as a campaign-finance purist, even as she attempts to fix the money rules to her advantage. Political operatives preparing super PACs for candidates, and the millionaires and billionaires getting ready to pay for their own campaigns, are adjusting to the new environment. “I think people have a caricature in mind of what they’re criticizing,” said Steve Phillips, a Democratic donor and operative who is preparing a super PAC to back Booker’s bid for the presidency.

Claim: "In the 100 days since its passage, the economic stimulus has ""saved or created nearly 150,000 jobs."""
Evidence Summary: The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created under Trump, compared to a net loss of over 200,000 under Obama. Last year was America's best manufacturing performance since 1997 - since before China joined the World Trade Organization and sucked all those jobs away.

Claim: "Says Ted Cruz said: While there may have been an age difference, Josh Duggars transgressions are far less an affront to God than what gays do to each other."
Evidence Summary: Project Blitz packages together about two dozen bills in separate categories based on the type of opposition they are likely to receive. One of the steering team behind Project Blitz is David Barton, the Texas-based founder of an organisation called WallBuilders. Karen Pence started this week as an art teacher at a private Christian school that makes job candidates sign a pledge not to engage in homosexual activity. The school that Mrs Pence chose bars staff from engaging in or condoning "homosexual or lesbian sexual activity" and "transgender identity"

Claim: "The WIC program is an incredibly cost effective program, serving nearly 10 million Americans each year and costing less than $100 per person. In my district, more than 18 percent of residents suffer from food insecurity and depend on WIC to make ends meet."
Evidence Summary: The shutdown has sparked national concerns over benefit programmes like food stamps. The Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) are not receiving federal funds at all during the shutdown. WIC is provided for pregnant, postpartum and breastfeeding women, infants, and children up to age 5 who fall within the poverty index and are at "nutritional risk" The USDA announced Tuesday that WIC would continue to operate through February, thanks to "prior year funding"

Claim: "During the last election, Democrats won over a million votes more than Republicans, but because of the way districts are designed, the Republicans got 33 more members of the House of Representatives than the Democrats did."
Evidence Summary: Before this year's midterm election, Republicans held 23 seats in districts won by Hillary Clinton. That number is now two. In districts where Trump won 55% or more of the vote in 2016, Republicans actually went from 146 seats to 148. Those numbers matter because of how they changed the political character of the House Republicans. There may be fewer Republicans in the House now, but the ones who remain are more closely aligned with President Trump and his view of the Republican Party. And while their numbers are fewer, this is a group made much more in the image of President Trump.

Claim: "Says Rep. Betty Sutton supports allowing welfare fund withdrawals from strip clubs, casinos and liquor stores."
Evidence Summary: New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand made a dent in a Republican's lifelong allegiance to the GOP. The Justice Department’s reversal on online gambling hewed closely to arguments made by lobbyists for casino magnate and top Republican donor Sheldon Adelson. Two financial regulators filed for expenses like corporate CEOs, seeking reimbursement for limos, deluxe air travel and meals in posh restaurants. The New York Times ran a piece reporting that Gillibrands had reached out to potential presidential-campaign donors on Wall Street.

Claim: "Says the United States has the highest incarceration rate in the world with 2.3 million inmates, and the majority of Americans are imprisoned because they sold small amounts of drugs."
Evidence Summary: More whites use drugs in the USA, but more than half of the people in state prisons on drug offenses are people of color. The lifetime likelihood that an individual born in 2001 will end up in prison also varies greatly by race. It's one in 17 for white males and one in three for black males. The Guzmán trial has had one salutary effect, it’s been to show the impossibility of trying to keep drugs from entering the U.S. By plane, train, truck and submarine they continue to arrive.

Claim: "Thanks to restrictive and anticompetitive ballot laws, candidates in November 2014 ran unopposed in nearly half of Wisconsins state representative races but in Michigan and Minnesota nearly all races had challengers."
Evidence Summary: Voting issues have become central to politics in key states including Florida, Georgia, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Questions about the health of American democracy are being raised in areas once thought to be wholly nonpartisan. A court battle over whether the Trump administration is trying to use a question about citizenship on the 2020 census to undercount Democratic constituencies and limit their political clout is taking place in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit. "Every voter in the state should be asking one question: why are Republicans in the Wisconsin legislature so afraid of the people they claim they want to represent?"

Claim: "Documents released by Edward Snowden reveal that American, Britishand Israeli intelligence agencies worked together to create the Islamic State."
Evidence Summary: Maha Elgizouli's son, El Shafee Elsheikh, and Alexanda Kotey are accused of belonging to an IS cell believed to have beheaded hostages. The two men, being held in northern Syria, may face prosecution in the US. Britain shared 600 witness statements gathered by the Metropolitan Police with the US under a process called "mutual legal assistance" (MLA) Lisa Monaco: "Al-Qaeda, ISIS, others recruit based on the theory that there's a clash of civilizations"

Claim: "With his proposal to cut income and property taxes, Scott Walker is increasing the state deficit at a time when borrowing is already at record levels."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Republican Party Chairman Tim Schneider characterized Pritzker’s agenda as “borrow, tax, spend, repeat.” Newsom, who won the governorship by a landslide, takes office amid a soaring state economy that has a projected $16 billion in reserves and an additional $14.8 billion unrestricted surplus. He campaigned heavily on issues relating to housing, health care and education that could raise state spending. Newsom attempted to also appeal to those conservative voters who feel disenfranchised by the election results.

Claim: "In Congress, (Cresent Hardy) voted to defund DACA."
Evidence Summary: At a ceremony to usher in a record number of Latino Democrats in Congress, lawmakers exuded more outrage than delight. They are contending for now with a standoff over a border wall with Mexico that has partially shut down the government. "It's because of Trump’s obsession with stirring up anti-immigrant sentiment that we're in this predicament and it is quickly affecting the most vulnerable," said newly minted Democratic Congressman Jesús “Chuy” García, D-Illinois.

Claim: "After today, @GovJayNixon will have been overridden more times than all previous governors in #MO history #moleg"
Evidence Summary: The April 2 election will decide expired terms for municipal officials, park district trustees, library district trustees and school board members. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. “When you’re doing a good job, it’s disappointing that someone calls into question your integrity,” Gurnee Gov. Scott Walker said after the challenge. ‘If you RESIGN, WE’LL ALL BE FINE,’ one Twitter user wrote.

Claim: "Patrick Murphy voted for Obamacare in 2010, yet he reversed himself and voted to delay the employer mandate and the individual mandate."
Evidence Summary: Before CHIP was enacted, the number of uninsured children in America was around 10 million. “This is an area the country has made enormous progress on, and it’s something we should all feel proud of — and Senator Hatch should too,” said Joan Alker. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. That flip-flop also disavowed his support for a national health care plan during his first presidential run.

Claim: "Rick Scott's former health care company, Columbia/HCA, committed ""fraud."""
Evidence Summary: Rick Scott, is returning to Shutts & Bowen LLP, where he’ll work as a member of its appellate practice group. A federal judge on Monday expressed concerns with Gov. Rick Scott's suspension of former Broward County elections chief Brenda Snipes. A former director of Arizona's lead social services agency said he asked Gov. Doug Ducey to shut down Hacienda after a 2015 audit revealed concerns of financial fraud. The director of the facility has resigned and the company subsequently hired former Maricopa County Attorney Rick Romley to conduct an independent investigation.

Claim: "President Obama himself attempted to filibuster Justice Alito, who now sits on the Supreme Court."
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court upheld President Trump's immigration orders. Chief Justice John Roberts said he does not have "Obama judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or Clinton judges" The government has identified over 160 times throughout U.S. history when presidents appointed non-Senate-confirmed government officials to serve in high level positions. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Illinois, said such a maneuver will surely be challenged in court. "He'll face a challenge, I'm sure, if he's oversteps what the law requires when it comes to his responsibility as commander in chief"

Claim: "We have almost 68,000 Georgia students who are required by law to attend a chronically failing school."
Evidence Summary: More than half of students in the U.S. don't graduate from high school. That figure is higher than the national average of 50 percent. More than half the nation's high school students don't complete their degrees. The rate of high school dropouts has been on the rise since the 1970s, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. The number of high-school dropouts is expected to continue to rise as more students go to college. The U.K. is one of the few countries in the world that has a higher rate of college dropouts.

Claim: "You and I know that in the history of mankind and womankind, government federal, state, local, or otherwise has never created one job."
Evidence Summary: "Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. I'm just hoping this government opens up," she says. "I think it is really important that Parliament listens to people who are creating jobs in this region and across the country and act on it" "This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for," she adds. "We need a federal law.” "I get where they’re coming from. But my role in government is to manage a lot of competing interests"

Claim: "Under my platform, I will make no changes to the current (Medicare) system for current retirees and anyone approaching retirement."
Evidence Summary: The slogan would seemingly replace the old, ‘BUILD THAT WALL’ that so many Trump supporters have chanted at rallies across the country since he announced his intention to run for president in 2015. Given Trump’s track record, he may find it beneath him to respond to such a muscular opposition, but GOP Congressmen running for re-election won't be able to dodge engagement. 28 percent of newly elected Democratic House members who won in Republican strongholds have already endorsed ‘Medicare for All,’ including Florida's Donna Shalala.

Claim: "Says El Paso was named Americas Safest Large City a year after San Antonio, Houston and Dallas had the nations highest crime rates."
Evidence Summary: Eighty per cent of El Paso’s residents are of Hispanic origin. Retail sales in the US side of the twin cities is estimated to generate $10bn a year, with a fifth attributed to Mexican shoppers. Trump has painted a picture of rampant crime and the threat of violence being imported into the US. Yet crime in El Paso on the USside of the border remains relatively low. Violent crimes have fallen sharply from about 6,500 in 1993 to around 3,000 today. Beto O’Rourke, the rising star of the Democratic party, lauded El Paso as the “safest city in America” as part of his senatorial election campaign in November.

Claim: "The Pentagons survey about the Dont Ask, Dont Tell policy found that 92 percent of service members agree that they could serve ... in a unit in combat without compromising mission readiness."
Evidence Summary: The Defense Department issued a statement saying it is also “pleased’ with the high court’s decision. “As always, we treat all transgender persons with respect and dignity,” a DoD spokesperson said. The Trump administration has argued that allowing openly transgender people to serve would be “too great a risk to military effectiveness and lethality” A 2016 Rand Corp. study concluded it would “have benefits for all service members by creating a more inclusive and diverse force”

Claim: "Since Volvo spurned Georgia for South Carolina in early May, some 3,455 jobs promising more than $800 million in investments have come to the Peach State."
Evidence Summary: Jesup, Georgia, has a population of 9,754, a population that has dropped nearly 5% since 2010. The town will feel it eventually, Melvina Barnes, a reintegration and re-entry officer at the prison who lives in Jesup concluded. “My kids can’t afford the lifestyle we gave them without leaving town,” said Ed Jeffords, whose son plans to move to Orlando. In some places, the labor shortages are already here. Shaw Industries, headquartered in Dalton, Georgia,. is growing so quickly that finding good talent "can be challenging," says Brian Cooksey, director of workforce development.

Claim: "Ben Carson is running for president to eliminate dependency on government. But he doesnt mention that he grew up in public schools, got public housing and food stamps, got free glasses from a government program, was helped by Affirmative Action, and got Pell Grants for college."
Evidence Summary: In 2016, 96 percent of Trump supporters expressed generalized anger at federal policies. Much of this animus is rooted in a race-based contempt for the allegedly useless “other’s” A companion myth is that support for low-income families is sucking America dry. Many Americans who benefit from government assistance are literally in denial, writes Julian Zelizer. But it's not the same thing as lying about immigrants, he says. Zelizer: California will not have one house for the rich and one for the poor.

Claim: "Over the last four years, the deficit has gone up, but 90 percent of that is as a consequence of President George W. Bushs policies and the recession."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. While it was silly for Trump to take credit for the recovery he inherited last year, he could plausibly argue that his tax cuts provided a shot of economic adrenaline this year. But Trump also owns the red ink created by those tax cuts. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion.

Claim: "Says Donald Trump said at the Republican convention, I alone can fix it."
Evidence Summary: As a candidate, President Trump famously said "I alone can fix it" Two years into his presidency and he's tweeting about being all alone in the White House. Most of the changes Trump has imposed on the country have been through executive actions. The changes to what has now been Trump’s party for three years may be far stickier than he imagined, says NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. The president is stuck in a government shutdown he said he'd be proud to own.

Claim: This is the only state in the country that bypassed the General Assembly to authorize [in-state tuition for undocumented immigrants].
Evidence Summary: The strike also drew attention to how California, one of the wealthiest and most liberal states in the country, spends relatively little on its public schools. Illegal immigration costs taxpayers a staggering $134.9 billion a year while contributing only $19 billion in state, federal, and local taxes. At the federal level, medical costs make up the lion’s share of government expenditures on illegal immigrants, while education is the largest single expense that illegal immigration imposes on state and local governments. After New York Democrats won control of the State Senate in November for the first time in a decade, protections for immigrants became a legislative priority.

Claim: "Of the 18 stadiums built from 2004 to 2013, 47 percent of the total cost came from public sources."
Evidence Summary: Chicago's Joint Review Board, backed $900 million in tax-increment financing (TIF) for the 168-acre North Side area that includes Lincoln Yards. Residents of Lincoln Park and Bucktown wanted neither. Sterling Bay pulled those elements from its Lincoln Yards blueprints at the behest of the local alderman, Brian Hopkins, 2nd. The lasting effect of the sold-off rights to on-street parking revenues created an annual hole in the budget of $45 million in a city already grappling with serious financial problems.

Claim: "If you log into the governments Cash for Clunkers Web site (cars.gov) from your home computer, the government can seize all of your personal and private information, and track your computer activity."
Evidence Summary: Chinese government has a seemingly unquenchable thirst for data on its own citizens. Beijing’s efforts and ambitions to know, and thus control, its citizenry are becoming well-known to Americans. Cyber powers, including China, are collecting and compiling data on private citizens, including Americans and other nationals. The FTC should establish a data-broker clearinghouse that requires all data brokers to register, says one consumer. The government shutdown is putting government websites at serious risk, experts say.

Claim: "The oil and natural gas industry provides or supports 141,600 jobs in Georgia."
Evidence Summary: Oil and gas drilling is booming, but much of it is on federal land and some worry about a slowdown. The Treasury department furloughed roughly 72,400 workers. That is nearly three times the number of people who work at Facebook. The industry is tied to the construction sector and, as a result, tends to grow in tandem with economic growth. It’s 16 times the size of the entire coal mining industry and more than double the number who work for Target and General Motors.

Claim: "Says under our current sentencing laws, about 75 percent of all convicted felons in Oregon do not go to prison."
Evidence Summary: The data on crime, and what it says about reforms, has been contested. Small upticks in some types of crime in some areas has muddied the picture. A previous attempt to pass legislation that would make juveniles eligible for parole after serving 30 years instead of 51 years expired in committee last year. About 4.7 million people in the United States remain disenfranchised because of a felony conviction, according to a 2016 estimate by The Sentencing Project, a non-profit organization focused on criminal justice issues.

Claim: "Todd Staples recently tried to woo his supporters and right-wing base by suggesting the Agriculture Commission cut programs intended to feed the elderly and disabled, many of whom are veterans."
Evidence Summary: The shifts, while perhaps inevitable, leave some worrying that the hard work of pressing for the complicated and expensive health care needs, and other issues, will lack a generation of new leaders. “These smaller groups don’t do policy advocacy while the Big Six have been carrying all the water,” said Kristofer Goldsmith, an assistant director for policy and government affairs at the Vietnam Veterans of America. Critics say that paying for care in the private sector would starve the 153-year-old veterans’ health care system, causing many hospitals to close.

Claim: "In the first round of repayments from financial institutions that received TARP money, the government has actually turned a profit."
Evidence Summary: Obama's plan is a "classic example of why you don't want the federal government getting involved in industry," Edwards says. The IRS is recalling about 46,000 of its employees furloughed by the government shutdown. The employees won't be paid. JPMorgan Chase is reporting that its fourth-quarter profits jumped sharply from a year earlier. But it still missed analysts' estimates because of weakness on its trading desks during the market's recent bout of volatility.. Wells Fargo's profits fell slightly in the fourth quarter as the consumer banking giant remains restrained by federal regulators.

Claim: "Says he has seen Border Patrol signs near the Mexico border in English, Spanish and Chinese."
Evidence Summary: Mam and K'iche' are among the languages most often heard in immigration cases. Border agents are supposed to make use of interpreters when they have communication problems. But the procedures aren't always followed, Geoff Nunberg says. Nunberg: Even those Q'eqchi' who speak some Spanish aren't up to using it when the topic turns to medical or legal issues. Back to the page you came from, where you can find the story of Jakelin Caal's death.

Claim: "Says Harry Reid, when asked about the Republican field, said the Republican he likes the best is Donald Trump, and he said, because I can work with him. Hell cut deals."
Evidence Summary: Former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid gave a rare interview to the New York Times Magazine. In the interview, Reid called President Donald Trump "without question the worst president we’ve ever had" Reid also defended on his decision to do away with filibusters in judicial appointments – a move that, as the Times notes, cleared the way for Republicans and Trump to land two conservatives justices on the Supreme Court. Reid also questioned why former attorney general Jeff Sessions and former White House chief of staff John Kelly did not leave Trump's administration sooner.

Claim: "Current projections indicate that Medicare will go bankrupt by 2017, while Social Security will bottom out by 2037."
Evidence Summary: Trump tweets 'BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!' The slogan would seemingly replace the old, ‘BUILD THAT WALL’ that so many Trump supporters have chanted at rallies across the country since he announced his intention to run for president in 2015. Americans like the idea of ‘Medicare-for-all,’ but support flips to disapproval if it would result in higher taxes or longer waits for care. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify.

Claim: "Economic inequality in Multnomah County has a face -- and a name. It has 90,000 faces and names -- the number of county residents who are still unemployed, or underemployed, in the wake of the 2008 Wall Street crash."
Evidence Summary: During the Great Recession, in the predominantly African-American Prince George’s County, in Maryland, right next to Washington, D.C., teachers and parents lamented that their schools were in disrepair. As the foreclosure crisis slashed county tax revenue, the county government and nonprofits could scarcely keep pace with resident demand. The Black middle class, unlike the White middle class,. already tends to live in communities with more poverty. When the Black middleclass is distressed, Black communities’ already fragile stability is further undermined.

Claim: "Says over the last 48 years, every governor at the midterm of his first term or her first term has lost seats in the Legislature, with the exception of Jim McGreevey in 2003."
Evidence Summary: Out of the 19 Republicans who have held the highest office only six were former governors. Of the 15 Democratic presidents seven, including two of the most consequential, Franklin Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson, were former governor. Any of the governors on this list would have to win as dark horse candidates. Democrats picked up seven gubernatorial seats previously held by Republicans in November, running mostly on a message of expanding health care coverage and increasing education funding. Republicans also shed several hundred state legislative seats: 253 to be precise.

Claim: "As speaker, Gingrich even supported taxpayer funding of some abortions."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand pushed for former senator Al Franken's ouster from the Senate amid sexual misconduct allegations. Conservatives have rejected family instead pitching plans that do rely on new taxes. Abortion fights on unrelated bills is almost a certainty in the coming Congress, a political science professor says. The Senate action Thursday was clearly aimed not just at House Democrats’ boast that they would vote to overturn existing abortion restrictions, but also at the annual anti-abortion “March for Life” held in Washington.

Claim: "Barack Obama ""cut taxes for working families."""
Evidence Summary: President Trump and Republicans in Congress delivered the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The legislation simplified the federal tax code and encouraged entrepreneurs to launch and grow their businesses. Thanks to this administration’s pro-growth policies, over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. It found that the top rate for the rich in developed countries plunged from 62 percent in 1970 to 38 percent in 2013. President Trump reduced tax rates for individuals and corporations, a decrease that favors the rich and businesses.

Claim: "Every time somebody new gets the Ebola virus, it mutates."
Evidence Summary: An American man who had been monitored for possible exposure to Ebola while in Africa has been released from a hospital. "This person completed the required 21-day monitoring period and did not develop symptoms of the disease,” Dr. Ted Cieslak, infectious diseases specialist with Nebraska Medicine, said in a statement. "Because this individual was symptom free throughout the monitoring period, it was determined they did not have Ebola, and therefore, were free to depart our facility and return home," he said.

Claim: "The Democratic health care bill will ""collect higher taxes for 10 years and provide health care for only six years."""
Evidence Summary: Democrats' health care ambitions are meeting up with reality. With the Senate in Republican hands and President Trump having promised to repeal the ACA, Democrats' ability to make sweeping health policy changes is limited. Instead, they'll likely rely on hearings and turn to the courts to try to influence health policy and shore up the ACA. But it’s virtually certain that no major expansions are going to happen in Washington for the next two years because Republicans still control the Senate and the White House. For the first time in roughly a decade, Democrats rather than Republicans are the ones dreaming and talking about passing major new health care legislation.

Claim: "A new manufacturing plant is slated to create about 3,000 jobs in central and northeast Georgia and create about a $3 billion infusion into the economy."
Evidence Summary: "This is a crisis for the manufacturing sector," says John Swinney. In some places, the labor shortages are already here. "If this goes on for another couple of years, then yes of course we'll be running into labor shortages," says Ryan Sweet. The restaurant manager at lunch put us in touch with some GM workers who've agreed to meet for dinner at the Sunrise Inn in the old manufacturing city of Warren, Ohio. Other jobs are coming to that part of Ohio, but likely for lower pay.

Claim: "Since Gov. Nathan Deal office in 2011, the states rainy day fund has grown by 643 percent."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom inherited a $28 billion deficit and left a $14 billion surplus. He also created an $18 billion so-called rainy day fund to help the state get through what is widely viewed as an inevitable coming recession. Mr. Brown’s insistence on holding onto state revenues was a source of continued friction with Democratic allies in the Legislature, who wanted to use the money to restore spending cuts that had been in place during the Great Recession. He laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation.

Claim: "You've got a building in the Cayman Islands that supposedly houses 12,000 corporations. That's either the biggest building or the biggest tax scam on record."
Evidence Summary: Julianna CASTRO: We can consider different ways, different proposals, to be able to raise more revenue from, you know, the wealthiest corporations. In reality, of course, some of us are doing more than others. For some, tax is something to avoid. As world leaders meet at Davos this month to discuss growing global inequality, the self-styled celebrity philanthropist and regular attendee Bono will be unlikely to bring up his tax avoidance. The world’s richest man, Jeff Bezos, recently launched a £2bn fund for homelessness.

Claim: "Says Michael Bennet votes for President Obamas agenda 98 percent of the time. Hardly independent, hardly bipartisan."
Evidence Summary: Former Vice President Joe Biden touted his relationship with former President Barack Obama in a meeting with black voters in New York. Biden made no mention of the 1994 crime bill he authored, a law that's sparked criticism from progressive activists for its strict sentencing requirements. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., who was once in the party’s center, tacked left in recent years before announcing a presidential bid last week. Biden didn’t come of political age in the era of democratic socialism. He voted for the Iraq War, a border fence and the1994 crime bill.

Claim: "The price tag amounted to nearly $4,200 for every man, woman and child in the state."
Evidence Summary: The Camp fire, which killed 86 people and burned the Northern California town of Paradise to the ground in November, was last year’s most expensive natural disaster worldwide. The next most expensive disaster was Hurricane Michael, which barreled through Florida in October, killing nearly four dozen people and wrecking entire communities. Natural disasters worldwide in 2018 cost a total of about $160 billion, according to a report from German-based global reinsurance company Munich Re. “Our data shows that the losses from wildfires in California have risen dramatically in recent years,” Ernst Rauch, Munich Re”s head of climate, said.

Claim: "If you're over 65 years old in America today, you have no choice but to be in Medicare. Even if you want out of Medicare, you have to forfeit your Social Security to get out of it."
Evidence Summary: Polls show 70 percent of adults support opening the federal health care program for the elderly to every American. Sen. Bernie Sanders, who managed to mainstream the idea during his 2016 presidential run, has trumpeted those survey results. But when most Americans hear the words “Medicare for all,” they aren’t necessarily imagining the sort of single-payer system the Vermont senator has proposed. Many readers of these columns have told me they are just hanging on until they turn 65 when Medicare will pay their medical bills.

Claim: "Although we have twice the population of Greece, the state of Florida employs three times fewer government employees."
Evidence Summary: In one year, New York lost more than 48,000 residents. In the same period, the U.S. population grew by more than 1 million. The trend is due to higher taxes in the blue states, and less in the red states. But some argue that the trend is a result of a lack of government investment in the states, not the other way around. The U.N. says it is working with states to find ways to reduce the cost of living in the Blue States.

Claim: "In FY 2014 Planned Parenthood performed 327,653 abortions while receiving $528 million from taxpayers, in violation of the Hyde amendment."
Evidence Summary: McConnell’s legislation would have made the provision permanent and government-wide. When the House was under GOP control, it passed similar measures repeatedly, but those bills have not been able to emerge from the Senate, where 60 votes are required. Because Democrats generally support Planned Parenthood, the power shift in the House makes the chances for defunding the organization even slimmer. “We’re pretty disappointed that, despite having a Republican Congress for two years, Planned Parenthood wasn’t defunded,” said Kristan Hawkins of the anti-abortion group Students for Life of America.

Claim: "Mitt Romney has ""a pro-choice record."""
Evidence Summary: Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. So was Romney, as he moved from running for office in liberal Massachusetts to establishing his conservative bona fides with national Republicans. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. The win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump.

Claim: "Says as Co-Chair of the Joint Ways Means Committee, I secured the key piece of funding for the Portland-Milwaukie Light Rail project bridge."
Evidence Summary: In May 2018, the board approved a $400,000 fund to oppose the project “due to both the need being unwarranted and the absence of data on its full environmental impact,” according to the village’s website. The money was allocated for communications, research, lobbying, potential litigation and a contingency fund. At the end of the month, the village staff and rail officials will meet to study and model alternatives to the holding track, Brady said. The village spent approximately $380,000 of the allocated funds in 2018.

Claim: "We are the poster child for compliance, and whenever we discover possible infractions we resolve and report it to the NCAA no matter how minor the violations."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State's football coach says the university's rising graduation rates have even become a recruiting tool to attract athletes. The school tries to approach students and parents with a truthful, but respectful tone, Calhoun-Brown said. “We are trying to build our reputation at Georgia State on not who we exclude, but who we include, and who we succeed with,” she said. FSU admitted later Monday night, "we foolishly posted a graphic that was not in line with our intent"

Claim: "To give the proposed economic stimulus plan some perspective, ""if you started the day Jesus Christ was born and spent $1 million every day since then, you still wouldnt have spent $1 trillion."""
Evidence Summary: Tucker Carlson: U.S. lawmakers act as if the answer is no to infrastructure spending. He says the president's numbers have been wildly different. Carlson: "It’s only our obligation to pay for it. They’re telling us that God agrees with them. They're telling us they're going to spend the money on themselves" It's time to raise the debt ceiling, Carlson says. It's not time to spend it on ourselves. It is time to start spending it on infrastructure.

Claim: "The federal government owns about half of the West, yet it continues to acquire more land."
Evidence Summary: Private Landowners Along Trump's Proposed Border Wall Risk Losing Property NPR's Scott Simon asks ProPublica reporter T. Christian Miller about past efforts to build walls along the Southern border. Miller: Federal agencies can take control of the land that you bought, with your money. "The government sees your property rights differently," Miller says. "It turns out that if you hold enough of the levers of power, you can self-own all you want and keep grinning in the face of the jeers," he says.

Claim: "Families are paying $900, on average, ""in higher premiums because of uncompensated care."""
Evidence Summary: The gains seen during the early years of Obamacare are being reversed. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014. The Republican tax package repealed the Affordable Care Act’s fines on people who didn’t obtain health coverage under the law. The administration has dramatically reduced funding for advertising, marketing and outreach to draw eligible customers to the exchanges during open enrollment and for programs that help consumers navigate the sign-up process.

Claim: "After the Texas cutoff of aid to womens health care services including Planned Parenthood clinics, over 150,000 women lost the only health care they had. Our Medicaid birth rate shot up. It cost taxpayers over $130 million in one year alone in extra Medicaid birth costs."
Evidence Summary: A final rule is expected any day that would cut off a significant part of Planned Parenthood’s federal funding — not from Medicaid but from the Title X Family Planning Program. The rule would effectively require Planned Parenthood to physically separate facilities that perform abortions from those that provide federally funded services. Planned Parenthood has said it is likely to sue over the new rules when they are finalized. The Supreme Court upheld in 1991 a similar set of restrictions that were never implemented. The restriction is a result of the Hyde Amendment, which Congress passed in 1976 and prohibits the use of federal funds for abortion services.

Claim: "There are legitimate and widespread anomalies, and widespread questions about the conduct of (the Wisconsin Supreme Court) election, most visibly in Waukesha County, but also in counties around the state."
Evidence Summary: From Chicago Heights to Tinley Park, potential candidates for public office have hurled accusations of shenanigans and allegations of political dirty tricks. Municipal electoral boards have met to decide formal objections to nominating petitions filed by candidates seeking public office. An electoral board in Cook County is considering objections to dozens of candidates for local school boards throughout the south suburbs and other regions of the county. Critics often question the integrity of electoral board members and their ability to decide disputes in an objective and impartial manner. Some believe objections are evidence of an unfair or "rigged" political system.

Claim: "As the Democrats finally maxed out their government spending credit card Monday, Kurt Schrader continued to stand with his party leaders in failing to offer any viable long-term solution."
Evidence Summary: Some newly elected Democrats are increasingly frustrated that they are taking complaints from angry constituents without having a mapped-out plan to end the partial shutdown. The border wall-shutdown standoff is exactly the kind of situation in which another Democratic fold would seem to be, er, in the cards. Democrats just rode back to power in the House campaigning not to tighten the government’s belt, but to think big about what government can do to help everyday Americans. Americans seem keen on government doing something about stagnant pay, devastating climate change, worsening inequality, and deep structural fissures like racism and sexism.

Claim: "Virginia is headed towards another surplus this year, unlike most states."
Evidence Summary: The arrival last year of Mr. Carter and 14 other newly elected Democrats made it possible for Democrats to expand Medicaid. Now the party is aiming to take control of the state legislature this coming November. The upcoming election also sets the stage for a struggle over Virginia’s future. While Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product, it ranks 26th in income equality, according to the American Community Survey. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he said.

Claim: "Kasichs budget increases state spending from $50.5 billion to $55.6 billion. This is the second largest, two-year spending increase in Ohio history."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom proposed a $144 billion budget this week that will increase the state’s overall spending. At his first inaugural address since winning the election in November, Newsom promised a bold budget that would increase the year's previous budget by four percent. Newsom plans to deliver on his promise Thursday at a news conference discussing his proposal in detail. Eric Holcomb is looking to dip slightly into the state's reserves for more money toward a goal of boosting teacher pay. Indiana has amassed a $1.8 billion reserve fund, but GOP leaders say significantly drawing that down would be fiscally irresponsible.

Claim: "The city of Brookhavens ordinance could cause the Pink Pony to close, thereby putting 300 Pink Pony employees out of work in this economy."
Evidence Summary: Talk of the County is a reader-generated column of opinions. If you see something you disagree with or think is incorrect, call us at 312-222-4554 or email talkofthecounty@tribpub.com. For a continuously updating blog, go to newssunonline.com/talk. You can also follow us on Facebook and Twitter @NewssunTalk and @cnnbloomer. The shutdown has affected businesses in Wayne County, Illinois, but not everyone is aware.

Claim: "The economic stimulus bill created a council that's ""modeled after the national board that controls Britains health system."""
Evidence Summary: The 133-page document says NHS bosses have drawn up “a provisional list of potential legislative changes for parliament’s consideration’ If enacted, these changes would “remove the counterproductive effect that general competition rules and powers can have on the integration of NHS care”. Repealing the most contentious sections of the legislation would also “cut delays and costs of the NHS automatically having to go through procurement processes” Dr Chaand Nagpaul, the chair of the British Medical Association, said the plan needed to include clear proposals to enable hospitals to resume meeting key waiting times.

Claim: "U.S. Reps. Hank Johnson, John Lewis and other members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus are socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress."
Evidence Summary: The growing socialist wing of the Democratic Party will flex its muscle Thursday with the seating of the new Congress. Dozens of sitting and incoming members – including likely 2020 hopefuls – embrace a massive government expansion that would make FDR look like a penny pincher. The party agenda is increasingly embracing big-government policies like “Medicare-for-all” and guaranteed jobs programs. It’s unclear when and if any of them will make it to the floor, let alone pass the House. But their support marks an astonishing rise for socialist-leaning policies in just a few years.

Claim: "Mr. President, multiple times from your administration there have come statements that Republicans have no ideas and no solutions on health care."
Evidence Summary: The midterms were a call to action on health care. Democrats and Republicans have deep disagreements, but progress is possible and they should try. Republicans failed to advance new ideas and weren’t ready when it came time to govern. Democrats have at least eight substantive proposals for achieving universal coverage, and they have a lot more similarities than differences. Now is the perfect time to expose them to the public, debate the merits, and engage experts to improve on these proposals or introduce new ones. It’s time for everyone in Congress to declare where they stand on aggressively dealing with unaffordable drug prices.

Claim: "Says in Washington, D.C., Sen. Richard Burr took millions from special interests, went there and cashed in, voted to cut (his) own taxes and raise taxes on working folks."
Evidence Summary: “Government employees are going to be paid for the work they do. I continually hear how they are not being paid.” – Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y. “You’re starting to see some fracturing on the right when it comes to standing together with the president the longer this goes on,” Wall Street Journal columnist slammed elected officials on Capitol Hill. "I think you do need to get money out of politics," Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand said.

Claim: "Not only is there no scientific evidence that CO2 is a pollutant, higher CO2 concentrations actually help ecosystems support more plant and animal life."
Evidence Summary: The last time the atmosphere contained as much carbon dioxide as it does now, dinosaurs roamed what was then a verdant landscape. Today, plants and soil around the world absorb roughly a quarter of the greenhouse gases that humans release into the atmosphere. In an ideal situation, as levels of carbon dioxide increased, plants would soak up more of these emissions, helping to fuel their growth. But under a warming climate, rather than absorbing more greenhouse gas emissions, plants may start absorbing less, accelerating the rate of change.

Claim: "There are not, nor have there ever been, any boycotts encouraged by our organizations."
Evidence Summary: Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge's office argued that boycotting Israel is not activity protected by the First Amendment. In December, the Arkansas Times weekly newspaper sued to block a similar measure. That state law, which took effect in August 2017, requires contractors to reduce their fees by 20 percent if they don't sign a pledge not to boycott Israel. Harris also defended freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., on “The View.”

Claim: "Mike Martinez cut a deal with prosecutors to avoid facing possible jail time and stuck us with his $24,657.50 legal bill."
Evidence Summary: A Chicago suburb has tentatively agreed to pay a former doctoral student $1.25 million to settle a lawsuit alleging police officers tackled him to the ground. Lawrence Crosby was 25 and an engineering doctoral student at Northwestern University in 2015 when the incident occurred. The amount of the settlement pending final approval by the City Council next week. The prosecutor, claiming that Hernandez was a violent gang member and a “scammer” with access to large amounts of cash, asked the judge to set the bail high enough to keep him inside.

Claim: "Michelle Nunn spent most of her childhood in Perry, Ga."
Evidence Summary: She was the youngest and the only girl in a family of seven. She grew up in a rural town in New York state. She was elected to the House of Representatives in 2006. She lost her re-election bid in 2010, but has since been re-elected. She says she is proud of the work she has done in the House since then. She is also proud of her role in helping the city of Sioux City, New York, recover from the financial crisis of the 1990s.

Claim: "In total, we have added nearly 75,000 private sector jobs in New Jersey since we took office in January 2010."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. private sector added 271,000 jobs in December, according to a report released Thursday. Economists forecast that the Labor Department will report Friday that employers added 180,000. The labor market has been so strong that it has drawn millions of people back into the workforce. There are now 6.9 million unfilled jobs in the country, surpassing the number of people unemployed last year for the first time in history. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion.

Claim: Guantanamo detainees get taxpayer-paid-for prayer rugsthey had honey-glazed chicken and rice pilaf.
Evidence Summary: Federal inmates in Brooklyn feasted on Cornish hen and prisoners in Minnesota got chicken wings on New Year's Day. Special holiday menus have been a staple for years within the Federal Bureau of Prisons to promote morale, officials said. The generous meals highlighted an increasingly raw struggle by workers, many at the lowest rungs of the government pay scale who live paycheck to paycheck. "This is appalling," said Coleman prison union chief Joe Rojas. "You're giving a gift to somebody who committed a crime, yet you won't pay the people who are supervising them?"

Claim: "Mayor Barrett saved Milwaukee $25 million, thanks to Gov. Walkers reforms."
Evidence Summary: Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel ordered an outside audit of the city's workers compensation program. Emanuel bypassed plenty of opportunities during the last eight years to raise a flashlight on the $100-million-a-year program. How Chicago’s next mayor attacks the beast will, for better or worse, help shape Chicago's livability and its people's prosperity. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor.

Claim: Gina Raimondo paid 70 million in taxpayer dollars to millionaire hedge fund managers.
Evidence Summary: New U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) wants to tax the richest Americans at a rate of 70 percent on their income above $10 million. “As you climb up this ladder, you should be contributing more,” she said in an interview with CBS News’ “60 Minutes.” Mr. Buffett, the third-richest man in the world, has been saying “Tax me more” for years — or at least, “ tax me at the same rate as my secretary”

Claim: "Says on the state level, we spend less today than Jon Corzine spent in fiscal year 2008, five years later."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom is set to become the state's next governor. John Sutter says Newsom's agenda is likely to be costly, and likely to face obstacles. Sutter: The coercive power of the state should be invoked sparingly. He says Gov. Rauner's track record of accomplishment might have been better if he didn't relentlessly accuse Democratic legislative leaders of being crooked and corrupt when he needed their respect and cooperation to advance his agenda. The new governor has pledged to increase spending on early childhood education and a few other programs.

Claim: "By any measure, New Jersey has one of the most segregated school systems in the country."
Evidence Summary: New York City has tried to desegregate its schools in fits and starts since the 1954 Supreme Court ruling in Brown v. Board of Education. Some black parents in Bedford-Stuyvesant are choosing an alternative: schools explicitly designed for black children. Afrocentric schools have been championed by black educators who had traumatic experiences with integration as far back as the 1960s. If the schools benefit students of color, charter opponents will need to rethink their position, says Jonathan Zimmerman, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania.

Claim: "If you look at the benefits and wages of recorded federal employees, they far outstrip the market rates of the private sector."
Evidence Summary: "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," says union leader. "We forget that we're getting a large fraction of the labor force on the cheap" "These are extraordinary times. They must be confronted as such," he says. "I love serving the U.S., but we will be unable to keep doing it without a paycheck" "This is not the way to go," says the union's president. "It's not a way to solve a problem."

Claim: We had a debate on whether ObamaCare was the way to go to fix up health care and the American voters said no -- emphatically.
Evidence Summary: Survey: 74 percent – including 47 percent of Republicans – favor a national government plan like Medicare that is open to anyone. Results come after a federal judge in Texas ruled in December that the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, is invalid. The law remains in place as Democrats appeal that decision. Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable care Act, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began.

Claim: Rhode Island: 3% bigger at low tide.
Evidence Summary: Rising sea levels have slashed the home values of four New England states by more than $400 million. Massachusetts' property owners have suffered the biggest losses. Coastal homes may face greater dangers from flooding and storms than inland properties. One extreme example includes a house in Boston currently valued at $373,725 that would have been worth almost $800,000 if not for the higher sea level. The research focuses on the impact of rising tides between 2005 to 2017 for 2.5 million coastal properties.

Claim: "Says Marco Rubio said that people who essentially dont agree with him, ought to leave the country, like Keith Olbermann."
Evidence Summary: O'Rourke openly wondered whether the U.S. can "still be managed by the same principles that were set down 230-plus years ago" in the Constitution. Asked what could be done about illegal immigrants who overstayed their visas, O’Rourke told Johnson simply, “I don’t know.” MSNBC'S BRIAN WILLIAMS MOCKS O'ROURKE FOR INSTAGRAMMING TRIP to the DENTIST.

Claim: "Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy."
Evidence Summary: David Frum: The obsession with debt is looking foolish even at full employment. He says the new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt. To win the anxious middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions, Frum says. The nation faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment, he says. It is a savage society we now live in, and politicians should talk about their own experience of debt.

Claim: "Honduras bans citizens from owning guns and has the highest homicide rate in the entire world. Switzerland, with a similar population, requires citizens to own guns and has the lowest homicide rate in the entire world."
Evidence Summary: Robert Muggah: El Salvador still has one of the highest murder rates in the world. He says there is virtually no evidence to support the idea that expanding access to firearms increases individual safety and security. Brazilians are desperate for better public security, and not without good reason, he says. The idea that a "good guy with a gun" will improve personal security in Brazil is fiction, Mugghah says. "It must improve oversight over the arms holdings of police and private security companies," he adds.

Claim: "Obamas flush with cash, returning to Wall Street for even more money. Wall Street sure supports President Obama."
Evidence Summary: The actions of the 44th and 45th occupants of the White House offer clues on how that process will play out. Trump is presiding over an economy that remains healthy. Obama actively campaigned for Democrats in last year’s midterms, endorsing more than 300 candidates. His blessing remains highly coveted, and the public comments from his former staff and advisers are parsed for clues about his thinking. While the party he once presided over is divided on most everything, they are united in their reverence to Obama.

Claim: "During the Reagan era, ""the richest Americans had their top income tax rate cut in half."""
Evidence Summary: From 1980 to 1990, the top federal income tax rate fell from 70 percent to 28 percent. But the average rate that the top 1 percent of earners actually paid on all of their income only fell from 38.5 percent to 34.6 percent. The point of high top marginal income tax rates is to constrain the immoderate, and especially unmerited, accumulation of riches. The fact that hardly anybody paid those rates was a sign of their near total success, says Julian Zelizer.

Claim: "Says the Republican Party platform says pull back even more of the rules on campaign finance reform, get rid of McCain-Feingold while the Democratic Party platform says we want to find a way to put more fair rules on campaign finance reform."
Evidence Summary: New York Gov. Bill de Blasio announced plans to guarantee health care for all in the city – including illegal immigrants. House Democrats are making a so-called “reform” package their first legislative priority in the new Congress. The bill consists of speech-stifling regulations under the guise of campaign finance reform. It should be noted that this effort has a zero percent chance of passing the Senate, much less being signed into law. The Democrat campaign finance plan dusts off their decades-old dream for the public financing of political campaigns.

Claim: "As Washington debates cracking down on the big Wall Street banks, Ive passed legislation that does so."
Evidence Summary: Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters is the new chairwoman of the House Financial Services Committee. Waters, a frequent and vocal critic of President Trump and his administration, now has some in the financial industry on edge given her newly obtained congressional powers. The sector benefited from the Trump administration’s rollback of financial regulations implemented after the last recession. Waters has already hinted she is interested in ramping up the pressure on banks that have been accused of widespread abuses. The shift in power likely won’t have a major impact from a legislative and regulatory standpoint. However, the political rhetoric and voice in support of consumer, and retail investor protection, and in opposition to large banks and ‘Wall Street’ is sure to be louder.

Claim: "In 2005 and 2007, Joe Straus received a 100 percent rating by NARAL (the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League)."
Evidence Summary: The poll found that 55 percent of Americans identify as pro-choice, up four percentage points from the previous year's survey. However, the same percentage of respondents said medical professionals with moral objections to abortion should be allowed to opt out of performing the procedure. The survey also found that if the Supreme Court revisits the landmark Roe v. Wade decision, 49 percent support upholding abortion restrictions legislated by the states while another 16 percent supported outlawing the procedure completely. Just 30 percent of respondents favored a Supreme Court ruling allowing unrestricted abortion.

Claim: "Before I was governor, tuition was skyrocketing and we stopped that. We capped and then we froze college tuition."
Evidence Summary: During years of Illinois budget struggles, the two-year impasse included, the national trend toward making universities more reliant on their own income. But Illinois higher ed’s idea of reinventing itself for the present and future doesn’t go much beyond asking for more money from taxpayers. IBHE officials talk wistfully — and a little too much — about the generous state funding they received in 2002. They call that higher ed's “benchmark year” — as if lawmakers have a way-back machine and billions in spare cash lying around.

Claim: "Says Gov. Scott Walker signed abortion, sex education and discrimination bills in secret."
Evidence Summary: Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn factory. Four of the 20 new governors who took office this month, three Democrats and one Republican, signed nondiscrimination orders that include sexual orientation and gender identity. The first march took place on the west steps of the Capitol in January 1974, the year after the Supreme Court decided Roe v. Wade in favor of abortion rights.

Claim: "Rubio's tax swap proposal ""would have been a massive tax increase."""
Evidence Summary: Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wants to raise the top tax rate on the ultra-rich to 70 percent. That would mark a return to the more progressive tax structure of the 1950s and 1960s, when the richest Americans were taxed at up to 90 percent. Women supported the proposal by 62-38 percent and men favored it by 55-45 percent, according to the Hill. Not surprisingly, conservatives are bashing the idea. Americans for Tax Reform founder Grover Norquist called it "the opening shot in a renewed war against middle class taxpayers"

Claim: "Says the mayors job is to make sure that if somebody is trying to build a set of water treatment plants to cure us from cryptosporidium we dont have, we dont say yes even if CH2M Hill wants us to."
Evidence Summary: The mayors said they were “very disappointed’ that the state minister for water, Niall Blair, was unable to attend Wednesday’s meeting. A furious mayor of Broken Hill, Dariea Turley, said they had been told the minister had important ministerial business, and could not attend. “We thought that our attendance here was an important duty given we represent over 40% of the state,” she said. However, the minister said the mayors had been. told ahead of time he couldn’t attend in person, and though he planned to phone in, his. other immovable appointment had gone over time.

Claim: "Eighty percent of the oil were discovering, were discovering in the deep Gulf of Mexico."
Evidence Summary: Norway came under fire for approving 83 new exploration licenses last week, more than a dozen of which were in the Barents Sea. "Let's see who gets tired first: Those who steal the fuel or us," says Wells. "The oceans are our life support system," says Sommerkorn. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "You can’t say that just days after you grant 83 new licenses," he adds.

Claim: We had the biggest drop of the rate of unemployment (in)all but 4 states.
Evidence Summary: The US added 312,000 jobs in December, a huge rise well above forecasts that came amid volatile stock markets, a government shutdown and signs the economy is slowing. The latest figures from the labour department, released on Friday, showed that the unemployment rate had risen to 3.9% from 3.7%. The rise came as more people entered the job market looking for work. The figures were cheered by president Donald Trump. “GREAT JOBS NUMBERS JUST ANNOUNCED!” he wrote on Twitter.

Claim: "In state after state, polls make clear that the American public understands the Kelo ruling is a disaster."
Evidence Summary: In February of 2004, hundreds of couples from all over the state and nation lined up to get married. The California Supreme Court eventually ruled that preventing same-sex couples from marrying violated the state constitution. At city hall that day, Newsom took a victory lap with language that came back to haunt him. In the meantime, the Ketchums’ fate may tell us something about how the Supreme Court feels.. Glenn Harlan Reynolds, a University of Tennessee law professor and the author of "The New School: How the Information Age Will Save American Education from Itself," is a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

Claim: "This generation, on average, is starting their careers, if theyve been to a four-year college, with just under $30,000 in debt."
Evidence Summary: Washington already owns or guarantees $1.4 trillion in student loan debt to nearly 43 million borrowers. Students are taking out more and more in loans, both public and private, to cover the costs. Resolving it will require everyone to work together to better educate student and parent borrowers about balancing aspirations with debt. “They understand that younger people have to work harder than their parents to achieve the same quality of life,” said Aaron Huertas, 34, a college student.

Claim: "In the mid 1990s, in our state, (Florida was) No. 1 in violent crime in America. ... The only concern I had was for the citizens of Florida, who were subjected to a violent crime every three minutes and 45 seconds."
Evidence Summary: Violent crimes in El Paso have fallen sharply from about 6,500 in 1993 to around 3,000 today. The data on crime, and what it says about reforms, has been contested. Small upticks in some types of crime in some areas has muddied the picture. Activists see parallels in the strategies of opponents of more lenient sentencing laws in California and the rhetoric on crime at the national level. The former attorney general, Jeff Sessions, warned early last year about a “staggering increase in homicides.”

Claim: Our tax code is so complicated it extracts $140 billion in extra tax preparation costs every year - one thousand dollars for every American family.
Evidence Summary: Filing returns is the most direct way millions of Americans interact with the federal government. Each year, the IRS typically collects more than 150 million returns. Taxpayers will be confronting — many for the first time — a welter of changes made by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. People without health insurance may be surprised to learn they are still on the hook when it comes to Obamacare’s so-called individual mandate. The coming year could be a busy one for state legislators around the country.

Claim: "One of the Planned Parenthood videos shows a fully formed fetus on the table, its heart beating, its legs kicking, while someone says, We have to keep it alive to harvest its brain."
Evidence Summary: Federal investigators determined that the videos had been selectively edited. Roe v. Wade allowed elective abortion throughout all nine months of a woman’s pregnancy. Roe argues that the right to privacy encompasses “a woman's decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy,” but science shows otherwise. The science caught up with what our eyes and hearts told us long ago. Now it's time for our laws to do the same, says Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood of Iowa.

Claim: "In 2009, the Small Business Entrepreneurship Council ranked Ohio 11th in the nation and 1st in the Midwest for overall business climate."
Evidence Summary: According to the latest data from Gallup, U.S. small business owners are more optimistic about business conditions now than at any point in recorded history. Small businesses account for two-thirds of new job creation, so the booming labor market is also a reflection of their strength. Since President Trump was elected, small business creation has surged, with new business applications increasing by 16 percent. As the incoming chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I am committed to ensuring entrepreneurs can succeed.

Claim: "...some of those (tax increases) were either court-ordered, or they were voted on by the people and approved by the people for (such) things as roads."
Evidence Summary: Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy. But the tax rates in Illinois have become excessive. Without more prudence in handling the budget crisis, more citizens will move to other states. “Taxing bodies are allowed to ask for more than [they need] by the state, including the new developments,’’ village official says.“I have two kids in junior high right now and one in high school, and think that education is important,” Kroner says.

Claim: "Under changes being debated, state employees in Wisconsin who earn $30,000, $40,000, $50,000 a year might have 20 percent of their income just disappear overnight."
Evidence Summary: Illinoisans in 2018, like Americans in 1980, saw a state in decline under four dreary years of the Rauner administration. Pritzker, like his predecessor, never held public office until his November victory, and has become our chief executive with a blank slate and a bank full of pledges. He also faces a slew of fiscal problems and the nagging issue of Illinoisans fleeing the Prairie State. One of the near-term fiscal problems is how to pay for those step raises granted state employees.

Claim: "North Korea has a substantial standing army, one of the largest, certainly the largest per capita, in the world."
Evidence Summary: Kim Jong Un calls on South Korea to end its joint military drills with the US. North Korea has 1.28 million troops, one of the world's largest armies, compared with the South's 599,000. Many conservatives in South Korea have said that South Korea shouldn’t have agreed on conventional arms-reduction programs because North Korea’s nuclear threat remains unchanged. Kim's speech showed Pyongyang was “clearly willing to engage in dialogue while working towards denuclearisation with Washington and Seoul – but on its terms”

Claim: "If an Iranian woman shows too much hair in public, she risks being beaten or killed."
Evidence Summary: At least 112 women human rights defenders were arrested or remained in detention in Iran last year following sustained protests against compulsory veiling. Women silently waved their headscarves on sticks in public, provoking a violent response and a number of ‘grossly unfair’ trials that led to some being jailed. Shaparak Shajarizadeh fled Iran after she was released from prison on bail following her peaceful protest in January. She has since claimed that she was placed in solitary confinement and tortured during a custodial sentence.

Claim: "Our countrys got this huge debt, and (President Barack) Obama says raise taxes and keep spending more."
Evidence Summary: President Bush: "We have to be careful because the American people are very conservative in the sense of not wanting radical change quickly. It just doesn’t work.” To win the anxious middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters, especially on health care and education, he says. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors. Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling," Bush says.

Claim: "Because of Obamacare peoples premiums ...are going up 35, 45, 55 percent."
Evidence Summary: The proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. High premiums for people who earn too much to qualify for federal tax credits to subsidize their costs have been a problem on the health insurance exchanges since they began for the 2014 enrollment period. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014.

Claim: "Eliminating earmarks ""would make barely a drop in the bucket with regard to the national debt, the deficit."""
Evidence Summary: "I want to give Congress $535 million in bonuses to balance the budget" "I don’t care how much they get the money, because messing with the tax rates is nothing but social engineering" "The proposed visit could throw a wrench in U.S.-Russia space cooperation’ "The FBI is investigating fake text messages sent to some House Republican lawmakers’ phones’ “I’m not sure how that is going to resolve itself” “The budget deficit could be $985 billion.”

Claim: "Since Sherrod Brown and the Democrats rammed the economic stimulus bill through, Ohios unemployment rate has risen to 9.6 percent, above the national average."
Evidence Summary: The US added 312,000 jobs in December, a huge rise well above forecasts that came amid volatile stock markets, a government shutdown and signs the economy is slowing. The unemployment rate rose from a 50-year low of 3.7 percent to 3.9 percent as an additional 419,000 Americans began working or looking for jobs. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon, saying the "tremendous" jobs number was partly due to companies such as auto manufacturers repatriating to the US.

Claim: "Vagina. Because apparently, saying that word in the Michigan State House of Representatives can get you a two-day ban from speaking on the floor."
Evidence Summary: Rashida Tlaib's use of the word “motherfucker” to describe President Trump has launched another exciting round of debate about decorum and civility in American politics. The country is divided along predictable lines: Trump followers who were untroubled when the president bragged about grabbing “women by the pussy” have rediscovered their ability to be outraged. Pelosi reasoned that while Trump’s comments have the power to “impact people's lives,” the new congresswoman's comments do not. Colbert quipped she cared about something so much she would talk to Ted Cruz.

Claim: "Mike Madigan made a fortune on tax appeals Saving his friends millions... Its an inside game played by people like Merry Marwig, Madigans hand-picked candidate. When Marwig thought her property taxes were too high she got them lowered at your expense. Saved so much she did it again. Marwig and Madigan: Profiting from the same corrupt system."
Evidence Summary: The speaker of the Illinois House, Madigan, has his name on Cook County’s top property tax appeal firm. His firm secured $2.5 billion in tax reductions for clients from 2010 to 2017, according to a Better Government Association analysis of records from the office. This is the government that is driving families and businesses away, says the BGA. The city of Chicago could have given the IG power for a forensic audit when Madigan was still in power, but it chose not to.

Claim: "After 9/11, Jim put us all first by serving for 23 months in Iraq, the wars longest tour."
Evidence Summary: CNN’s Anderson Cooper had some home truths for Donald Trump after the president bragged he’d have made “a good general” “The world will never know General Trump, in part because the president never set foot in a combat theater until last week with his trip to Iraq,” said Cooper. “I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, or the sadness gripping their souls," he said.

Claim: "In the 80s, Democrats promised spending cuts, but delivered only tax hikes."
Evidence Summary: Republicans spent the final weeks of the 2018 midterm elections downplaying their tax cut and instead sought to fire up their base with tough talk on immigration. Of the GOP ads that referred to taxes, 40 percent also mentioned Pelosi, and 35 percent also raised the subject of health care – often suggesting Democrats would raise taxes to pay for a universal health care system. Democrats just rode back to power in the House campaigning not to tighten the government’s belt, but to think big about what government can do to help everyday Americans.

Claim: "Says indoor workers get less UV than outdoor workers, but they get more melanomas."
Evidence Summary: A growing number of states have passed laws designed to help firefighters who develop cancer. Research from National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) published in 2013 shows that firefighters are diagnosed with and die from cancer at higher rates than the general population. The correlation between firefighters' on-the-job exposure to carcinogens and their subsequent illnesses is concerning enough to policy makers. Even with presumptive laws in place, municipalities across the country often fight firefighter's cancer-related workers' comp claims.

Claim: We are one of the most expensive [bus] rides in New England.
Evidence Summary: Greater Manchester residents to see an increase in council tax to fund free bus travel for 16 to 18-year-olds. The Opportunity Pass will be introduced from September and cost householders between £6 to £18 annually. Mayor Andy Burnham said getting young people "into the good habit of using the bus" would cut future congestion. He added that 32 million fewer journeys were being made by bus compared to 10 years ago. David Sidebottom, director at the independent watchdog Transport Focus, welcomed the move and urged the mayor and operators to introduce "simple and intuitive" bus travel.

Claim: "In Jeanne Shaheen, New Hampshire has a Senator who was the deciding vote to pass Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: Republicans can use the results of the election as an opportunity to officially cede the ground they have already really lost. By supporting ACA improvements, they will help expand the number of insured and also lessen the Democrats' political advantage on health care going into 2020. In the short term, Republicans will be forced to defend why they continue to support a lawsuit against the ACA that is backed by Republican states and the Trump administration. In early 2009, Gillibrand was the surprise gubernatorial pick to temporarily fill the Seate seat Hillary Clinton gave up to become then-President Barack Obama's secretary of state.

Claim: "If Cory Gardner gets his way, youd better stock up on condoms."
Evidence Summary: North Carolina House race marred by fraud may not be resolved until the fall. ‘I’m running because I think Kansas wants a conservative fighter in the United States Senate,’ LaTurner said. “[My departure will last] until and unless the commonwealth is ready for my views on things, and that’s not right now, clearly” – Failed 2018 Virginia Senate candidate Corey Stewart announcing he would not seek another term as chairman of the Board of Supervisors of Prince William County.

Claim: "The Baucus health care bill ""could be used to ban guns in home self-defense."""
Evidence Summary: Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner vetoed a similar proposal in the spring, calling it “duplicative” because the federal government already licenses firearms retailers. The bill will be introduced on the eighth anniversary of the Tucson, Arizona, mass shooting that targeted one of Giffords’ constituent meetings. It would be the first major gun legislation to get a vote in the House since the 1994 crime bill that temporarily banned the manufacture and sale of certain semi-automatic firearms. The Senate has tried, and failed, in the years since to pass legislation affecting gun sales, background checks and gun safety.

Claim: "Gov. Scott Walker received a $7,300 pay raise."
Evidence Summary: Gov. J.B. Pritzker gave about 20,000 state employees step-salary increases which were frozen by former Gov. Bruce Rauner. The Republican back then said the state couldn’t afford the pay raises, estimated at between $170 million and $500 million. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "Says when Bernie Sanders was in college, Sanders said something very similar to what conservative Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice Rebecca Bradley had written as a college student in the 1990s -- that women have a legitimate role in date rape."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Bernie Sanders has apologised to women who have shared experiences of alleged harassment by male supervisors while working on his 2016 US presidential campaign. The Vermont independent, who ran against Hillary Clinton in the Democratic primary race, said alleged misconduct by male aides ‘was absolutely unacceptable’ He said rhetoric about “ending sexism and ending all forms of discrimination … cannot just be words’ Sanders’ comments follow a Politico report that a former Sanders adviser, Robert Becker, had assaulted a female subordinate. Becker has denied the allegation and said he would not be part of any future work.

Claim: "Says he has repeatedly praised Chuck Hagels character, patriotism, bravery, and personal service defending our nation."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., says Barr is "a known quantity, a man of the highest integrity and charachter" Some Democrats including Mazie Hirono have voiced questions about Barr's independence. Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., said he would need a firm commitment that he wouldn’t allow any interference in the Mueller investigation. "What more assurance can he give to Democrats?" Grassley asked Monday evening on Fox News' "The Story with Martha MacCallum"

Claim: "The 48, 49 percent that supports President Barack Obama are people who pay no income tax."
Evidence Summary: A majority of voters support a proposal floated by U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to dramatically increase the highest tax rate on the wealthiest Americans. Around 59 percent of registered voters support the idea, according to a Hill-HarrisX survey. The New York Democrat set off a nationwide debate with her comments on CBS's “60 Minutes” that she would support the increase to fund her climate change plan. The proposed tax hike would affect those making $10 million or more, she said.

Claim: Says President Barack Obama is sending a much larger (force) to deal with Ebola than ISIS is getting.
Evidence Summary: Pompeo said President Trump had "unleashed the fury of the U.S. military not once, but twice" after Bashar Assad used chemical weapons on his people. He contrasted that to Obama's decision not to make a military response after Assad usedchemical weapons – even though Obama had threatened that such an action would cross a red line and would be punished. The White House announced in Dececmber that the approximately 2,000 American troops in Syria will depart soon.

Claim: "Young women, account for a shocking 74% of all new HIV infections among adolescents in Africa."
Evidence Summary: Since Gavi was founded, the number of children under the age of 5 dying in low- and middle-income countries has dropped by about 40%. Meanwhile, polio cases have almost disappeared. The progress on HIV is perhaps the most astonishing, especially if you remember the state of the epidemic around 2000. The World Health Organization's Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus paid tribute to the Global Fund's "truly impressive growth in impact" during its 17 years.

Claim: "In 2012, 123 African-Americans were shot dead by police. ... Same year, 326 whites were killed by police."
Evidence Summary: The two shootings occurred 6 miles and 18 months apart, and the driver in each case was driving a different pickup truck. Of the 1,147 people killed by police in 2017, a quarter were black. The criminal justice system and these judges send the message that the life of a young black man is worth less than that of a white man, Yvonne Smith says. The primary difference is the backgrounds of their convicted killers. The U.S. Department of Justice report on Chicago police practices noted how officers were instructed to make a lot of car stops.

Claim: Says Marco Rubio was for immigration reform and a pathway to citizenship before he was against it.
Evidence Summary: Trump on Saturday offered a three-year extension in protections for roughly 700,000 “dreamers’ who were brought to the US illegally as children. Ann Coulter, the far-right author, said in a tweet: “Trump proposes amnesty. We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” The former Florida governor Jeb Bush, who was perceived as soft on immigration by the Republican right, was one of several candidates Trump defeated in the party’s 2016 presidential primary contest.

Claim: "Says climate scientist James Hansen says we have until perhaps 50 years from now, or maybe a little longer and at that point, we are looking at 10, 20, 30 feet of sea-level rise."
Evidence Summary: The melting ice has caused global sea levels to rise more than half an inch since 1979. In this century alone, a ten-foot rise is possible, says lead author Eric Rignot. The actual amount and pace of future sea level rise depends on how warm it becomes, Englander says. "The smart path is to realize that it can occur and to design to reduce risk as much as possible," he says of Antarctica's ice sheet collapse. "Once you hit that tipping point, the only question is:' How severe does it get?'"

Claim: "In every single country, she had a majority of the vote -- or more of those who'd already made up their minds."
Evidence Summary: “The older generations are worried about immigration, but I’ve grown up in a country with open doors.” “The only way to avoid no deal is to vote for the deal,” she said. “Today I can proudly say that I am capable of making all of those decisions.’ “Imagine just for a moment what America would look like if it did. Imagine what would be possible." “Despite that progress, women still do not represent 51 percent of elected leaders in this country’

Claim: "Everyone on Californias roads is properly licensed, tested and insured."
Evidence Summary: "Historically, roadways have been designed to make it as efficient as possible for the vehicle," Kolosh said. "We now have to do a far better job of building our infrastructure to accommodate all road users" Kolosh: "We typically focus on the unusual or scary events ... and assume that those are the riskiest" "We never ignore anything which may put an individual at risk," he said. 'We have seen some improvement on the number of road deaths in 2018, we can do even better by ensuring basic safety steps are followed'

Claim: "In some states, African-Americans are three times more likely to be sentenced to death than whites for the same crime."
Evidence Summary: William Barr's first stint as attorney general under President George H.W. Bush was 30 years ago. Mass incarceration has robbed black people of freedom, separated black families, increased black poverty, and decreased black voting power. The criminal justice system and these judges send the message that the life of a young black man is worth less than a white man, says Yvonne Smith. The lifetime likelihood that an individual born in 2001 will end up in prison also varies greatly by race. It's one in 17 for white males and one in three for black males.

Claim: "The immigration bill includes free Obamacars, motorcycles or scooters."
Evidence Summary: 'Dreamers' need a path to citizenship, not merely a three-year reprieve. “There were people, particularly on my side of the aisle, who had an issue around, like, ‘free – free? – so you don’t have to do anything to qualify for it?’” Republican Rep. Steve Israel said. ‘We can recite many reasons Democrats should spurn President Trump’s Saturday afternoon offer to end the government shutdown,’ he said.

Claim: "Seventy bills [Kendrick Meek] authored, not one of them has passed."
Evidence Summary: House Majority Whip James Clyburn, D-S.C., said he planned to introduce a resolution of disapproval as a way to reprimand King. Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., called the exercise "a charade" because Senate leaders have already indicated they do not plan to vote on the bill. King backtracked quickly last week after his comments were first reported, telling NBC News, “I reject white nationalism.’“Making laws takes a presidential signature,” he told them. “We all learned that in grade school’

Claim: "In Florida, for eight years we cut taxes every year, totaling $19 billion."
Evidence Summary: As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. The uncomfortable truth for the bill’s supporters is that the tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years — as many economists believe it will — the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few."

Claim: "Under Obama's budget plan, families making over $250,000 are going to lose their mortgage deduction, their charitable deductions."
Evidence Summary: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act made sweeping changes to the U.S. tax system. Millions will no longer claim breaks for things like their mortgage interest and charitable contributions. People without health insurance may be surprised to learn they are still on the hook when it comes to Obamacare’s so-called individual mandate. There is also considerable uncertainty about what will happen with refunds. The IRS says it won’t penalize you for underestimating your tax bill in 2018, as long as you withheld at least 85 percent of your income.

Claim: "Says he vetoed $250,000 from the budget for a program to learn how to catch rainwater."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump threatened to cut relief funds for California areas impacted by deadly wildfires. He criticized the state for ‘forest management’, a claim that was debunked and admonished the last time he made it. With no explanation or official comment issued, it remains unclear if the president plans to take back funds already allocated for recovery – or if he will even be able to. Some are already speculating that California governor Gavin Newsom may be the most progressive governor in state history. The governor’s budget includes $500m to encourage local governments to build emergency shelters and navigation centers for the homeless.

Claim: "In the event of a U.S. strike on Syria, the Russians will replace the weapons immediately. Theyve said it on the record. Theyve suggested they might even replace it with better stuff."
Evidence Summary: Russia's Foreign Ministry says the Americans are not serious about withdrawing from Syria. Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said it appears to Moscow that the U.S. "is looking for a reason to stay" An American official said the process of withdrawing American equipment from Syria has begun. This includes putting an end to Turkish threats and fully eradicating the Islamic State group and its sleeper cells, she said. The Russian leader said the cessation of hostilities mustn't hurt the fight against terrorism that should continue.

Claim: "The president referred to the Syrian opposition just a few months ago as pharmacists and doctors, and so on."
Evidence Summary: Erdogan warns that the international community should avoid making the same mistakes as in Iraq. Trump’s announcement of a U.S. pullout left many questions open, including whether Kurdish fighters would be attacked by Turkey. “The first step is to create a stabilization force featuring fighters from all parts of Syrian society. Only a diverse body can serve all Syrian citizens and bring law and order to various parts of the country,” Erdogan said. The Kurds are trying to make a deal with the Syrian president, Bashar Assad.

Claim: "Two years ago motorists in Ferguson, a city of 20,000 people, received 31,000 citations. Thats at least one citation per person plus 10,000 for visitors. The city is still surviving only on traffic tickets; theres virtually no industry there."
Evidence Summary: The number of traffic stops more than tripled, rising from 85,965 in 2015 to 187,133 in 2016, then jumping to 285,067 in 2017. The findings have raised alarms for civil libertarians at a time when the Police Department is attempting to improve trust with minority communities. For police to be pulling over African-American motorists at such high rates as shown in the ACLU report brings a host of negative effects on the black community and its attitude toward law enforcement, professor Charles Epp says.

Claim: "If you care about the environment, weve got record funding."
Evidence Summary: "When it comes to climate change, do we care about actual results, or do we just care about virtue signaling?” Kathleen Sgamma, the organization’s president, said in a statement that slammed Green New Deal proponents for criticizing natural gas. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," Rebecca Long-Bailey, Labour's shadow business and energy secretary, said. "The UK must not miss out on the opportunity to lead the world on the next generation of renewables," she said.

Claim: "It was (Rob Portmans) job to stop Chinas illegal dumping of steel. He failed, looked the other way, did nothing."
Evidence Summary: “All of the border things that we’ll be building will be done right here in the good old USA by steel companies that were practically out of business when I came into office as president. And now, they’re thriving.” “It is about money in politics, it's about the influence of money. I have the biggest anti-corruption proposals since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington, you think?" “We’ve already built a lot of the wall” and “renovated a tremendous amount of wall’

Claim: "After Arizona banned smoking in all public places in 2007, admissions for acute myocardial infarction stroke, asthma, [and] angina decreased following the implementation of the ban."
Evidence Summary: Village board members’ unanimous approval of the measure Dec. 7 made Arlington Heights the 33rd community in the state to raise the purchasing age of tobacco products from 18 to 21. Public health officials and students launched the grassroots “Tobacco 21’ campaign a couple of years ago to encourage local increases to the purchase age. Tobacco companies oppose these laws on the grounds they negatively impact businesses, infringe on individual rights and are based on junk science. The World Bank, World Health Organization and US National Bureau of Economic Research all agree increasing tobacco taxes reduces smoking.

Claim: "A black male baby born today, if we do not change the system, stands a one-in-three chance (of) ending up in jail."
Evidence Summary: In the nearly 30 years since William Barr's first stint as attorney general under President George H.W. Bush, mass incarceration has disproportionately robbed black people of freedom. The lifetime likelihood that an individual born in 2001 will end up in prison also varies greatly by race. It's one in 17 for white males and one in three for black males. When Barr was attorney general in the 1990s, dogmatic, tough-on-crime policies held virtually the same position that progressive policies do now.

Claim: "Says Charlie Bass supports Paul Ryan plan that forces seniors to pay $6,400 a year more for health care so millionaires can pay less in taxes."
Evidence Summary: A new survey finds broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. Another poll released this week showed how Americans feel about proposals to expand government- run health programs. While a majority (56%) supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS], called Medicare-for-all, large majorities on both sides supported “buy-ins” to existing government-ran health plans.

Claim: "We had 2 percent of the global market (for advanced batteries) when he (Obama) started. We now have 16 percent, headed to 40 percent by 2015."
Evidence Summary: Renewable energy accounted for about a quarter of global electricity generation in 2017. By 2020, electricity from renewables is likely to be consistently cheaper than fossil fuel energy. U.S. wind capacity has more than tripled since 2008, while solar capacity is up more than six-fold. LED’s were 1 percent of the lighting market in 2008; now they’re more than half the market. There were almost no plug-in electric vehicles in 2008, now there are more than 1 million.

Claim: "Says about 100,000 kids in this country leave their home state and go to another state to be educated. Out of that 100,000 young people, 30,000 of them are from New Jersey, by far the largest amount."
Evidence Summary: Blue states with higher taxes and a higher cost of living are losing residents or gaining population at very low rates. No-income-tax states such as Florida, Nevada, Texas and Washington have grown at double-digit rates this decade. The trade war with China, visa restrictions and the anti-immigrant rhetoric coming from the White House are making it more complicated for international students to come to America. “We’ve watched other states fix it, but no one is stepping up to do it and I’m sad watching it,” one man says.

Claim: "(Obama) did accept donations from lobbyists and PACs and he spent money in this campaign from that, through his political action committee."
Evidence Summary: Trump tweeted that Obama for America violated campaign finance law. The Obama campaign’s civil infraction resulted in an administrative penalty, primarily because it was deemed inadvertent. In contrast, the Cohen violations were knowing and willful, as demonstrated by the efforts to conceal the true nature of the expenditures and contributions. In addition, according to Cohen's statements in federal court, the candidate not only knew about these payments, he directed or ordered them. The second saw more than three-quarters of newly elected congressional Democrats pledge to say no to corporate PACs.

Claim: "Says U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson opposes faster broadband internet in small towns and got nearly $90,000 in campaign contributions from the telecom special interests."
Evidence Summary: FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel wants to investigate how cellphone companies sell your location. Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon doesn't believe big tech companies can be trusted to regulate themselves. 21 million beneficiaries receive quality, affordable health coverage from Medicare Advantage. The 2020 Health Insurance Tax (HIT) will make beneficiaries pay more for their coverage, which they simply cannot afford. The GOP's control of the Senate makes passing any sort of regulatory action feel untenable, but one thing Republicans and Democrats share is considerable frustration with internet companies.

Claim: "McCain ""said the other day that he would not meet potentially with the prime minister of Spain, because he . . . wasn't sure whether they were aligned with us."""
Evidence Summary: Orbán implied he would continue to forge alliances with other nativist politicians. “I am completely fed up that when the EPP is looking for allies, we are only looking in the direction of pro-immigration forces,” he said. Ireland’s EU affairs minister, Helen McEntee, ruled out bilateral talks with the British government, and the Irish deputy leader, Simon Coveney, held talks with Michel Barnier. Miroslav Lajčák, the Slovakian foreign affairs minister said his country would not support any renegotiation of the withdrawal agreement.

Claim: "Over the history of Austin, its always gotten more expensive."
Evidence Summary: "We’re not going to stop and just say, ‘Oh this is a cost of doing business.’”“That’s what the market was pricing in.” "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to." "They find it's the easiest place to come through. They drive right in and make a left. It's notGoing to happen." "That was nothing compared to what we're seeing now"

Claim: "There have been multiple media reports about (Donald Trumps) business dealings with the mob, with the mafia."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump responded to a New York Times report that the FBI was looking into whether he was acting as a Russian agent. Trump called the report the "most insulting thing I've ever been asked" He also tweeted that he was "so sorry" to hear about "Jeff Bozo being taken down by a competitor" The comments come amid a difficult week for the president and his coziness with Russia and its leader, Vladimir Putin. The Post reported that Trump repeatedly moved to conceal details of his personal interactions with Putin from senior officials.

Claim: "The Greenlight Pinellas 1-cent sales tax is permanent, we never get to vote on this again."
Evidence Summary: Activist Maxime Nicolle called it the "tax collector's referendum" Illinois Conservative United board member Jane Carrell sarcastically said that the flight of taxpaying citizens to other states apparently is not going quickly enough for the Illinois General Assembly. “I’m working with state representatives to pressure Gov.-elect J.B. Pritzker to put together a progressive income tax at the state level,” Carrell said. The lone incumbent seeking election said the current board will study priority-based budgeting, which he said also needs community input.

Claim: "The average person only pays about $1,800 in state taxes which is the lowest of all 50 states."
Evidence Summary: A new poll found 59 percent support for taking income over $10 million at 70 percent. A 2017 Reuters-Ipsos poll found 76 percent of respondents agreeing with the proposition that “the wealthiest Americans should pay higher tax rates,” says John Avlon. Avlon: People seem to gloss over the fact that, except for a few states, people also pay state tax and often local taxes. Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy, he says.

Claim: "ISIS lures women with kittens, nutella."
Evidence Summary: Conventional thinking and security policies that aim to dissuade women from extremist groups tend to focus on ideology. But here in the northeast, some women have largely been compelled to affiliate with Boko Haram by social and political conditions. Perversely, the group offers them respite from insecurity and the limited opportunities afforded them in a deeply patriarchal society riven by poor governance. Their stories challenge the dominant narrative around Boko Haram, shaped by the global outcry over the Chibok schoolgirls’ kidnapping, which holds that women only join by force.

Claim: "In the past six years alone, changes to the pension formula have saved over half a billion dollars."
Evidence Summary: I don't welcome the prospect of a Greece-like scenario in which a desperate government makes swingeing pension cuts in an effort to balance the books. Good pension plans that would provide monthly payments in retirement have disappeared in favor of 401(k) plans. The shifts in the country’s financial security arrangements and health coverage resulted from major policy changes the public knew little about. “There will be a lot of downward mobility,” Ghilarducci predicts. Larry Elliott writes that only a rupture with the EU will alter the failed status quo.

Claim: "Texas added 6,600 miles of highway from 2001-2012, more than any other state."
Evidence Summary: Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000 people, the data show. But Texas’ growth spurt actually came at a slower rate than those in previous years, the Austin American-Statesman reported. The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each.

Claim: "Premeditation, in murder cases like the Oscar Pistorius case, can be formed in the twinkling of an eye."
Evidence Summary: Laquan McDonald was shot and killed by Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke. Judge ruled that police accounts exaggerated McDonald’s movements. Ilana Masad: The legal record will now show, implausibly, that story is a one-off event. She says it's time to abandon questionable forensics and bring courtrooms into the 21st century. The verdict raises question after troubling question, Masad says, and points out the frustrating subjectivity and fearful power of damning narratives that make up the ponderous process.

Claim: "Last year, Korea sold nearly half a million cars in our country. ... The United States, you know how much we sell to them? Six thousand. What kind of deal is that?"
Evidence Summary: North Korean leader Kim Jong-un's speech comes amid discord between Seoul and Washington on burden-sharing within the alliance. Kim encouraged his counterpart in the South to push ahead with inter-Korean projects without waiting for support from the United States. Jung Pak of the Brookings Institution talks about how the trade spat between the U.S. and China benefits North Korea. Because of international sanctions, more than 90 percent of North Korea's trade goes through China. The more the US president fulminates about China selling the US far more than it buys, the more it seems to go against him.

Claim: "Claims that former Sen. Tom Daschle said, ""Seniors should be more accepting of the conditions that come with age instead of treating them."""
Evidence Summary: Ginsburg's health is also being inappropriately used to revive an old argument about Supreme Court term limits. Some commenters say term limits could diminish the vagaries of health for greying judges promised lifetime tenure. The landscape of rights and prohibitions for older people is a mess. I’m certainly too old to sort it out. Margaret Hodge, MP for Barking and Dagenham, is the MP for the London Borough of Barking. She says: ‘The brave generation before the boomers languish in aged care beds, rotting, disintegrating, becoming invisible.’

Claim: The tax-cut deal adds more than $800 billion to the deficit over two years -- more than the cost of TARP and more than the cost of the Recovery Act and about the same as health care reform.
Evidence Summary: The deficit jumped by 17 percent in 2018, after the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul passed in 2017. If growth fades in the coming years — as many economists believe it will — the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. Just because the new law helped to increase economic growth, said Kyle Pomerleau, an economist with the Tax Foundation, “it doesn’t mean that it is going to pay for itself” The tax cut has reduced government revenues and contributed to a ballooning federal deficit, expected to reach $1 trillion this year.

Claim: "Wrote that in 2006, Nancy Pelosi said she didnt think capturing Osama bin Laden makes us any safer, but in 2011 called his killing historic."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi used the word "facts" six times, in an effort to contrast with what she called Trump's rhetoric of "fear" Pelosi said she and Bush “had our differences of opinion, especially on the war in Iraq, but we had many areas of agreement and we were able to work together in respectful ways” In 2008, Pelosi called then-President George W. Bush ‘a total failure, losing all credibility with the American people on the economy, on thewar, on energy, you name the subject"

Claim: "Thanks to #ObamaCare, average E.R. wait in California is 5 hours."
Evidence Summary: California, New York and Washington are among the states that embraced the Affordable Care Act by immediately adopting its Medicaid expansion. The uninsured rates in all three states are below the national average of 10 percent as of 2017, the most recent year for which Census data on the uninsured at the state level are available. California's new Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom outlined a similarly ambitious health care agenda for his state, aimed at offering more benefits to illegal immigrants and protecting the embattled Affordable care Act. New York City’s mayor is proposing measures that would, he says, guarantee coverage for all New Yorkers, including undocumented immigrants.

Claim: "Obama ""voted for ... $3-million for an overhead projector at a planetarium in Chicago."""
Evidence Summary: Hoffman gave $750,000 to American Engagement Technologies, a progressive tech start-up founded by former Obama administration official Mikey Dickerson. Dickerson spent $100,000 of Hoffman’s funds to hire New Knowledge, a social media research firm, to conduct research in Alabama. As if the freeway wasn't enough, Rodeo Road in central Los Angeles, not to be confused with the famous R rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills, will be renamed Obama Boulevard.

Claim: "Says Miami-Dade mayoral candidate Julio Robaina has the highest salary among Florida mayors. More than $260,000."
Evidence Summary: Julián Castro, a former U.S. Cabinet secretary, launched his presidential campaign in the hometown where he served as mayor for three terms. Castro, 44, was the mayor of San Antonio for five years before serving in the Obama administration for less than three. The RNC, as part of a comprehensive response to Castro's candidacy, has issued rapid-response documents pointing to contemporaneous reporting that has characterized Castro's government service as wholly unremarkable. The top compensation, as far as can be determined from Internal Revenue Service records, belongs to Gregory C. Simon.

Claim: "The balanced-budget amendment once came within one vote of passing Congress but was defeated because of the no vote from a top Senate Republican, and Rick Santorum says he stood up and called for him to resign his chairmanship."
Evidence Summary: Randy Feenstra was elected to the Iowa Senate in 2008. He is currently the head of the powerful tax-writing Senate Ways and Means Committee. He led the charge in getting the $867 billion farm bill passed last year with bipartisan support. He also chaired the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence from 2003 to 2006. "He wasn't very happy about it to say the least," said retiring GOP Sen. Pat Roberts of Kansas. "Mitch, if something doesn't work, he finds a way to make it work," said Roberts.

Claim: "Since 2000, Texas has reduced harmful pollutants in the air like nitrogen oxide by 62.5 percent, and ozone by 23 percent--a reduction that is 12 percent greater than the national average."
Evidence Summary: Report estimates emissions from residential and commercial buildings increased by 10% last year, reaching "their highest level since 2004". And without significant changes, industrial emissions will become bigger contributors to US CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions. "We expect it to overtake power as the second leading source of emissions in California by 2020 and to become the leading Source of Emissions in Texas by 2022," says the report. Between 2005 and 2017, CO2 emissions in the U.S. fell by about 14 percent.

Claim: "Californias Capitol building is second only to Disneyland, among visitor sites in the state."
Evidence Summary: “We will be ‘California for all,’” he promised. In 2019, political divisiveness and government shutdown have prompted parks’ problems. As in DeVoto’s imagination, park closure may cause local communities to feel the painful loss of tourism dollars. But these temporary losses must be held in balance with the long-term health and protection of parks, as well as the safety of park visitors.“The people of CA ― folks in Paradise ― should not be victims to partisan bickering”

Claim: "Under current conditions, by 2023, the interest payments on the national debt will be $722 billion, larger than the projected defense spending of $696 billion."
Evidence Summary: The federal budget deficit continued to rise in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Federal spending outpaced revenue by $317 billion over the first three months of the fiscal year. Interest payments alone could top spending on defense, Medicaid or children’s programs. The notion that debt doesn’t matter — which is gaining some currency on the left — is wrong. The long-term costs of Medicare, for example, continue to be a real problem in this country. The widening deficit comes despite a booming economy and a low unemployment rate.

Claim: "Wealthy taxpayers, not middle-income earners, get most of the deductions in the tax code."
Evidence Summary: Oxfam's O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" She said it "rewards US companies that have trillions stashed offshore, encourages US companies to dodge foreign taxes on their foreign profits" "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," she said. Many of the arguments against taxes on the wealthy are “moralistic” rather than empirical.

Claim: "Ive also offered a plan that can help (fix Social Security) thats supported by Robert Reich, secretary of labor previously, in a previous administration."
Evidence Summary: "I’m ready, willing and able to get a deal done. But they don’t," he said, referring to congressional Democrats. "I think it’s bad politics. This country wants to have protection at the border" "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he added. “The government really needs to get together and work this out,” he said of the shutdown.

Claim: "Gwinnett Medical Center is operating in the negative, in part, because of illegal immigrants."
Evidence Summary: Clinics want to keep patients informed, but don't want to scare them into dropping health benefits. "We are walking a fine line," says Tara McCollum Plese, chief external affairs officer at the Arizona Alliance for Community Health Centers. The Department of Homeland Security is reviewing more than 200,000 comments from the public before it issues a final rule. Some immigrant patients are skipping medical appointments out of fear stoked by the proposed rule, providers and advocates say.. Immigrants make up a significant portion of the health care workforce, and migration boosts economies overall.

Claim: "47 percent of Americanscant pay for an unexpected $400 expense through savings or credit cards, without selling something or borrowing money."
Evidence Summary: Survey: Less than half of Americans, just 40%, could cover an unexpected $1,000 expense from savings. Others said they would need to pay with a credit card, borrow from family or friends or simply take out a personal loan. Bloomberg estimates that federal contractors could be losing as much as $200 million a day in lost or delayed revenue, and Delta airlines says it has already lost $25 million in revenue, due to lost government flights. A Federal Reserve survey in May found that 40 percent of Americans would have to borrow or sell something to make a $400 emergency payment.

Claim: "Under Ted Cruzs tax plan, businesses will now have to pay 16 percent on the money they make. They will also have to pay 16 percent on the money they pay their employees."
Evidence Summary: O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," O'Brien said. Ocasio-Cortez suggested funding her proposed “Green New Deal” by the marginal tax rate of 70 percent on those making $10 million or more. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income.

Claim: "While others place their hands over their hearts, Obama turns his back to the flag and slouches."
Evidence Summary: Obama actively campaigned for Democrats in last year’s midterms, endorsing more than 300 candidates. While the party he once presided over is divided on most everything, they are united in their reverence to Obama. If he throws his support behind a candidate down the road, he could be the only prayer the party has of a semblance of unity.“I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers. How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?"

Claim: "Steve Poizner ""increased his department's budget nearly 14 percent."""
Evidence Summary: Pritzker declined to say how much the step increases would cost. He took over a state government Monday that’s $7.5 billion behind in paying its bills. Pritzker also signed an executive order requiring state agencies to make plans to fix problems found by recent audits. The new governor, though, has declined to release personal income tax returns that could shed light on his financial holdings, providing only the first two pages of the returns. The Republican leaders of the Illinois House and Senate did not comment.

Claim: "As a senator, Barack Obama supported ""an amendment that basically gutted the legal temporary worker program."""
Evidence Summary: Democratic Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand rejected President Trump's offer to extend protections for some undocumented immigrants for three years. The president on Saturday laid out what he said was an offer to end the government shutdown, now the longest in history. He offered to extend. protections under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and for. Temporary Protected Status (TPS) holders in exchange for funding for border security in a bid to end. the shutdown. Gillibrands said a three-year DACA deal "doesn't accomplish what we need to accomplish," insisting it must include a pathway to permanent citizenship.

Claim: "Ken Buck wants to outlaw abortion, even in cases of rape or incest."
Evidence Summary: Florida state Rep. Mike Hill has filed a bill to ban abortion if a fetal heartbeat is detected. Hill believes in the statement from "The Declaration of Independence" which says, "All men are created equal" The recipients of Buck’s many donations over the years – including Clinton and Barak Obama – are under increasing pressure to give away those contributions to LGBTQ and civil rights groups. With Democrats now in control of the U.S. House of Representatives, it might appear that the fight over abortion rights has become a standoff.

Claim: "While Mayor Kenney personally doesnt support DROP, he cant fault highly qualified city employees for appropriately utilizing a benefit thats available to them."
Evidence Summary: The council doesn't have the authority to fire city employees, Mayor Dave Kaptain says. Mayor Richard Irvin says he thinks that was enough to give aldermen a chance to “weigh-in” on an event. Mr. Johnson has not yet joined in the chorus of criticism over the start of the program. The Council has always believed that this program is for all New Yorkers living at or below the federal poverty line, a spokeswoman says. The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes.

Claim: "Republicans control the U.S. Senate with 54 seats, but those 54 senators were elected by only two-thirds the number of voters who elected the Democrats. In the Senate, the majority party represents a minority of the people."
Evidence Summary: Democrats are taking control of the House after winning a net 40 seats during the midterm elections. That's their biggest gain since the post-Watergate election of 1974 when Democrats picked up 49 seats. The new Democratic House majority has been making waves in Washington this week. But with them comes a new Republican minority. And while their numbers are fewer, this is a group made much more in the image of President Trump.Republicans also shed several hundred state legislative seats: 253 to be precise. Of them, eight Republicans and seven Democrats are new.

Claim: "Under the presidents plan, he cuts Medicare by $716 billion, takes that money out of the Medicare trust fund and uses it to pay for Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: Trump administration has taken steps to undermine the Affordable Care Act. Trump has often railed against high prescription drug prices but has said less about other problems with the nation's health care system. In early 2017, I offered advice to incoming Trump administration officials on how they ought to handle health care based on lessons from the Obama administration. I suggested proceeding incrementally and continuing to expand access to care and preexisting condition protections. It’s important to note that the current Medicare program is not self-sufficient.

Claim: "Lean, finely textured beef is the proper name [not pink slime], and it is a safe, widely used product."
Evidence Summary: Johnsonville Grillers is recalling more than 48,000 pounds of frozen raw pork patties. Problem was discovered after three consumers complained of black rubber in the product. There have been no confirmed reports of adverse reactions as a result of the possible contamination. Report criticised the US food safety system for the fact that antibiotic-resistant strains of salmonella, which sicken thousands of people each year, are not considered an adulterant in US meat products. It also called for tougher enforcement of existing meat safety laws.

Claim: "When George Bush took office, President Clinton, a Democrat, and the Democratic Congress at the time had left an annual budget that was in surplus."
Evidence Summary: Gingrich felt he had a mandate to enact strictures on big government. His "contract" promised to make government spend less. The language was bureaucratic, but it represented a huge change in how such negotiations were conducted. It laid the foundation for the Tea Party two decades later — and the modern Republican Party. It also laid out galvanizing principles for his followers in Congress that also laid the groundwork for the modern Tea Party and the GOP. It was also the first time a president had to accept a deal that included tax increases.

Claim: "Says Every year air pollution protections are delayed, another 34,000 people will die prematurely."
Evidence Summary: Air pollution was until recently regarded as a problem mainly for those whose health was already compromised or vulnerable in some way. Fresh science on the dangers of air pollution has been piling up. On Saturday, the Guardian reported new evidence that air pollution can increase the risk of miscarriage in early pregnancy, compared by one doctor to the effects of smoking. In recent years, studies have linked air pollution to dementia, heart conditions and birth defects. About 7 million people a year are estimated to die from air pollution around the world.

Claim: "Let's pay attention to kids who are not going to college, which ends up being about 60 percent of the kids... and get them trained for the jobs that are there. Because, you know, there are auto mechanic jobs paying $50,000, $60,000 that they can't get filled. There are airline mechanic jobs paying a lot of money that can't get filled. Remarks at AFSCME forum 6/19/2007"
Evidence Summary: A college degree remains the surest path to prosperity. Student loans should aid that pursuit, not impede it. Schools should have some skin in the game, since they receive the proceeds of taxpayer-subsidized loans. The federal government should open up some of the $130 billion it doles out annually in student loan guarantees and Pell Grants for higher education. The U.S. economy has been doing well under many measures and so education and training haven't been a first priority for governments.

Claim: "The U.S. State Department has ordered 160,000 Hazmat suits for Ebola, prompting concerns that the federal government is anticipating the rapid spread of the virus."
Evidence Summary: More than 600 Ebola cases have been reported, with more than 360 confirmed deaths since August. The outbreak has been difficult to control amid armed violence and community protests. The last time there was an extended interruption to the Ebola response, the number of cases surged dramatically afterward. “I think [the responders] are hanging on by a thread,” said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center, a program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C.

Claim: Republicans fought to protect tax loopholes for corporations that send our jobs overseas.
Evidence Summary: Clamping down on inheritance tax loopholes, a change to pensions tax relief to cap the tax-free lump sum, and scrapping Help to Buy and lifetime ISAs could also help boost the government’s coffers, it said. The GOP saddled us with a massive and growing federal budget deficit, which it now piously says someone else will need to fix by cutting what it calls ‘entitlements’ (such as Medicare and Social Security). Most recently, the GOP threw a partisan temper tantrum (which has partially shut down the government), because Democrats wouldn’t give Trump a $5 billion dollar Christmas present to fund a pork barrel border wall.

Claim: "Says her congressional district has 10,000 medical-device industry jobs and 1,000 will be lost because of health-care law tax."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., says House Democrats are using a "dark political maneuver" to hamstring progress on healthcare. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is laying out her strategy on health care and first up is improvements to "Obamacare" Hearings on "Medicare for all" will follow. 'Do you think we smell? Because we just got kicked off a plane for smelling,' says a father of a missing 3-year-old boy.

Claim: Two days of interest we pay to China is enough to buy one joint strike fighter [jet].
Evidence Summary: China’s desperate attempts to regain the momentum, however, betrays an ignorance of the American culture. China perceived the lack of strategic focus of the George W. Bush administration and the passive “lead from behind” foreign policy of the Obama administration as American decay and a decline. In reality, the foundational aspects of the U.S. economy remain surprisingly strong and the American fighting spirit is not dead, but only sleeping. Those who would believe that the sinking of two aircraft carriers would trigger an impulse towards retreat would do well to make themselves aware of the United States’ history.

Claim: "Says the average Ohio student graduates from a four-year college or university with nearly $27,000 in tuition debt."
Evidence Summary: Washington already owns or guarantees $1.4 trillion in student loan debt to nearly 43 million borrowers. Only 44 percent of borrowers have repaid at least one dollar of principal within three years of beginning their payments. A four-figure student loan could still haunt them for decades, in the form of lower wages once their payments are deducted and higher borrowing costs for other big purchases like cars and houses. Just 59 percent of Americans finish a bachelor's degree program within six years at a public institution, and non-graduates are three times as likely to default.

Claim: "A new federal program provides subsidized ""Obama phones"" with 70 free minutes of cell phone service every month."
Evidence Summary: Verizon implemented its “Promise to Pay’ program, allowing federal employees and other affected workers to set a future date to pay their wireless or cell phone bill. Late fees and agent assistance fees are waived for as long as the shutdown lasts. “The last thing people need to think about is paying a bill on time. We know how important it is to keep in touch with family,” said Mike Maiorana, senior vice president of the public sector at Verizon.

Claim: "The U.S. had the opportunity with Israel coming and talking to us about improving our security screening procedures, and we turned them down."
Evidence Summary: Netanyahu said recent attacks by the Islamist Boko Haram insurgency and a militant attack on a hotel in Nairobi, Kenya, last week showed the need to cooperate on security. Netanyahu has previously cited Chad’s renewed relationship with his country as an example of how Israel can make diplomatic inroads in Africa and the Middle East despite its conflict with the Palestinians. The new confidence may stem from the paucity of responses so far, both to the strikes in Syria and to the dismantling of tunnels from Lebanon.

Claim: "If youre a terrorist you cant fly, but an assault weapon you can buy."
Evidence Summary: "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," Obama says. "All these guys do is think and hatch plans and figure out how to get weapons. It's like a molotov cocktail waiting to explode" "No American should feel terrorized in their workplace," he adds. "We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control and ultimately fuel serious violence" "I'm going to give her an AK-47 so she can hang with me."

Claim: "In campaigns in the past with Sen. McCain and President George W. Bush and others, they have tended to release tax records in April."
Evidence Summary: On Nov. 1, the Chicago Tribune requested four years of full tax returns from mayoral candidates, including all schedules and attachments. This rite of transparency for candidates running for major office not only discloses income, but what financial interests and possible conflicts of interest could occur if elected. Of the 15 candidates remaining in the race, six have released their full tax information. Another three have released partial information, such as only the top two pages of their Form 1040 or information from a few years.

Claim: "New Mexico moved ""up to"" sixth in the nation in job growth."
Evidence Summary: The 43 municipalities included in the plan have boasted combined economic growth of 3.1 percent. Much of that robustness owes to trade and proximity with the U.S. "We have to take advantage of this locomotive that we have on the other side of the border," says Marquez. Texas added 379,000 new residents from July 2017 to July 2018, according to census data. In percentage terms, Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 per cent each.

Claim: "U.S. taxpayers paid $71,500 per job created by the stimulus bill."
Evidence Summary: The Department of Transportation employs hundreds of clerical workers, who earn just under $60,000 per year. The Treasury department furloughed roughly 72,400 workers. That is nearly three times the number of people who work at Facebook. The Department of Commerce employs thousands of clerks and assistants, who make about $35,000 a year. Department of Homeland Security More than $1 billion owed to 245,405 workers. Airport screeners make $41,000 on average, and have missed about $2,700 in wages so far.

Claim: "By the end of Governor Rick Perry's term, he will have drained Texas taxpayers ... of more than $360,000 to pay for the rental mansion he has been living in while the historic Governor's Mansion is repaired."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. The departing governor inherited a $28 billion deficit and left Mr Newsom a $14 billion surplus. He also created an $18 billion so-called rainy day fund to help the state get through what is widely viewed as an inevitable coming recession. Pritzker, a billionaire heir to the Hyatt Hotel fortune, called for a ‘fair tax system’ that would replace Illinois’ flat personal income tax rate.

Claim: "Obama ""suggested bombing Pakistan."""
Evidence Summary: Khalilzad is currently on a visit to Islamabad and has met with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan and the country's powerful army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa. Reports in Pakistani media suggest that efforts are under way by Pakistan to give a boost to the peace process by inviting the Taliban to Pakistan. President Donald Trump has repeatedly expressed his displeasure with Pakistan, accusing Islamabad of harboring militants. Pakistan denies the charge and says its influence over the Taliban is overstated.

Claim: "In our proposal, we would have expanded school aid across the board Governor Christie slashed school aid in this budget, preferring instead to extend a tax break for millionaires over funding in the classroom."
Evidence Summary: Andrew Cuomo surprised towns and villages with a proposed cut in their state operating aid. Those attending Wednesday night’s meeting largely agreed backing schools financially was important and wanted to learn more about it. “I’m not against taxes and funding our schools as that is our future,” said Oswego resident John Secor.“There are a lot of falsehoods out there regarding the law as we need $7 billion to completely fund the schools, but unfortunately we can’t get it all at once,’ Kifowit said.

Claim: "From 2008 to 2011, the pages in the conforming bills have gone from 400 pages to 2,200."
Evidence Summary: Researchers downloaded every quarterly and annual corporate report of every publicly traded American company from 1995 to 2014. They then sifted through thousands of reports, using a text analysis program. They found a high probability that the companies’ share prices would decline several months after the reports appeared. “It turned out that when there are a lot of changes, there’s a good chance that something important is going on, and most of the time, it's negative,” one researcher said.

Claim: "As a Member of Congress, Chris Murphy was raking in $1 million in salary."
Evidence Summary: Murphy has said he wishes Alvarez was never hired to work in the administration after the campaign. "You look at this woman's story, and it makes you sick -- the lack of the structure in our society," Murphy said last year. "I think you do need to get money out of politics," Sen. Gillibrand said. “I’m six days into the term, and you already used all your ammo. So enjoy being exhausted for the next two years while we run train on the progressive agenda,” Ocasio-Cortez said.

Claim: "He admits he still doesn't know how to use a computer, can't send an e-mail."
Evidence Summary: CNN's Alex Castellanos says he was frustrated when he didn't respond to an email from a colleague. He says he had work to do, and that he needed to write 3,000 words in the next 36 hours. He apologizes for what he's said during that time, saying he was just frustrated, after all. "Look, I take back anything that you might have taken as an insult,” he says. "This is the time to be engaged. This is not the time for unplugging"

Claim: "If todays economy was rebounding at the rate of the Reagan recovery, it would have created the equivalent of 25 million new jobs and raised federal revenue by $800 billion a year."
Evidence Summary: Ronald Reagan's farewell address is a final testament of an American president who had a genuine faith in the future. Reagan was a practical man, and he knew, as he put it, that “because we’re a great nation, our challenges seem complex.” “As long as we remember our first principles and believe in ourselves, the future will be ours,” he said. “And how stands the city on this winter night?” Mr. Reagan asked.

Claim: "Says state Sens. Greg Evers, Nancy Detert and Charles Dean got a failing grade from conservatives."
Evidence Summary: Graham: "If there’s an opening on this court, I’m going to be hell-bent to put a conservative to replace whoever steps down for whatever reason" Graham: "They tried to destroy conservative judges. I voted for [Sonia] Sotomayor and [Elena] Kagan, so this decision by Reid and Schumer may come back to haunt them, but I am dead set on making sure it is a conservative nominee" The Senate narrowly rejected Democratic-led efforts to block the Trump administration from lifting sanctions on Russian companies controlled by Oleg Deripaska.

Claim: "When I was mayor of New York City, I encouraged adoptions. Adoptions went up 65-70 percent. Abortions went down 16 percent."
Evidence Summary: "We need to get out of the way and let people make those choices," Mayor Stewart-Cousins said. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Monday promised to protect women’s reproductive rights by expanding the state's abortion laws within the first 30 days of the new legislative session. A poll found that 7 of 10 millennials — projected to be the largest voting bloc in America — support limits on abortion. 65 percent would like to vote on the abortion issue, something that can happen when Roe is reversed and questions of abortion policy returned to the states.

Claim: "The DNC hack showed you that the Clinton campaign was working to schedule (primary) debates against (Bernie) Sanders, and the Clinton campaign is continuing this ploy against Donald Trump."
Evidence Summary: The Democratic National Committee says it was victim of a hacking attempt as late as this past November. The DNC is suing the 2016 Trump campaign, the Russian government and several others over the 2016 hacking of emails from the DNC and Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. The new complaint does not contend that the president or his associates had any knowledge of the latest phishing attempts. It suggests that by initially denying now-reported contacts with Russia-linked figures, along with other behavior the DNC deems suspect, the Trump campaign showed itself to be part of a broader conspiracy.

Claim: "Bill McCollum ""served as a lobbyist whose clients enabled mortgages for illegal immigrants."""
Evidence Summary: California Sen. Kamala Harris negotiated a massive mortgage settlement during the housing crisis. Out of the $25 billion deal she helped negotiate with other state attorney generals, California homeowners received nearly $20 billion in mortgage relief. Harris declined to charge Steven Mnuchin, now President Trump’s treasury secretary, for allegedly violating state foreclosure laws when he ran OneWest bank. Beto O’Rourke boomeranged between a bright-eyed hope that the United States will soon dramatically change its approach to a whole host of issues.

Claim: "We have only one person on the (TVA) board, to my knowledge, who even has any corporate board experience."
Evidence Summary: "The fact that he is on social media in touch with people with similar backgrounds, I don’t find particularly surprising. We’ve dealt with him in the past on numerous occasions. It’s never been my experience to get any kind of signal, wave-off, go-ahead through the special counsel's office through that spokesperson.” "Having worked for 10 years in Rhodri Morgan's office I know there are parts of the job that, I won't look forward to as well"

Claim: "John Oxendine is under a state ethics investigation because he illegally funneled more than $120,000 to his campaign from shady insurance political action committees in Alabama."
Evidence Summary: The special counsel's office is challenging a BuzzFeed News report that says Trump directed Michael Cohen to lie to Congress. Former campaign chairman Paulafort lied to federal investigators about sharing campaign poll data with a Russian associate linked to Russian intelligence services, court papers filed Tuesday say. The problems we face go unsolved because of money's corrupting force, says NPR's Mary Louise Kelly. The list of outside groups to which money flows grows longer by the day — outside groups like 527 Groups and 501(c)s.

Claim: "Repeal of Obamacare would take away health care for 10.3 million Americans who have received coverage since Oct. 1, 2013."
Evidence Summary: 7.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. A U.S. District Court Judge in Texas ruled the Affordable Care Act, also called Obamacare, was unconstitutional. The ruling would also eliminate the law's expansion of Medicaid, enhanced drug benefit for seniors, bans on limits on insurance coverage, and the ability of young adults to stay on parents' health plans.

Claim: "Under Gov. Scott Walkers public-school budgets, a student entering kindergarten will not enjoy the same state investment in his or her education as those that came before them until they are graduating from high school."
Evidence Summary: The strike also drew attention to how California spends relatively little on its public schools. The state’s chronically constrained school spending is largely attributed to its property tax laws. “The idea tonight is to educate the public more about what the single largest portion of their property taxes goes for,” Kifowit says. ‘The belief that schools are not getting paid is fundamentally wrong,’ she says. 'There is a lot of falsehoods out there regarding the law as we need $7 billion to completely fund the schools'

Claim: "Says Obama has never submitted a budget, and Congress has worked for two years without passing one."
Evidence Summary: Today's Talker panelists weigh in on the political fallout from Tuesday's speeches and the showdown over border security. Marc Thiessen: "We have a $4.4 trillion federal budget and we are having a fight right now about the difference between $1.3 billion that the Democrats approved for a wall and $5.7 billion that President Trump is demanding" Gingrich: "All the president has to do is commit to a seven-year balanced budget with honest numbers and an honest scoring system"

Claim: "In one county alone in Ohio, President Obama received 106,258 votes. But there were only 98,213 eligible voters."
Evidence Summary: Trump misstates the Electoral College vote in his 2016 presidential race against Hillary Clinton. The official count was 304 to 227, according to an Associated Press tally of the electoral votes in every state. Clinton won the popular vote, receiving nearly 2.9 million more votes than Trump after racking up more lopsided victories in big states such as New York and California. In two counties, Bladen and Robeson, a suspiciously high number of people requested to vote absentee and then did not turn their ballots in.

Claim: "Every taxpayer owes about $130,000 to pay off the national debt."
Evidence Summary: "It's almost like children, Republicans and Democrats, two children fighting against each other tit for tat," Siciliano said. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he added. "This is ridiuclous and this is going to go on for months," he said of the debt ceiling standoff. "You got a million people out of work and you know, it's like pawns, pawns in a game," he told CNN.

Claim: "I took on the worst road system in the country, according to Trucker's magazine. When I left, they said it was the most improved road system in the country."
Evidence Summary: “The issues that we face as a country today are the issues that have been in my wheelhouse, that I’ve worked on my whole life,” Trooper Lambert says. “The seemingly dry acts of government really do affect the richness and joy of our lives.” “Taxpayers gripe about the cost of policing and pensions. But they are the first to thank those who serve making our roads safe for us when they are on the scene and give aid”

Claim: "You can go to Georgia and make about $6,000 more a year as a teacher."
Evidence Summary: In a national USA TODAY/Ipsos Poll last September, Americans by a similar 59 percent to 34 percent said teachers weren't paid what they're worth. In the survey, nearly four in 10 teachers say they had worked a second job over the past year to make ends meet. Almost three in 10 say they ran up debt during that time. "This really isn’t about pay,” Villaryo said. “We really want to be teaching.”

Claim: "We have ten different tax brackets and if youre making $9,000, youre already in the top tax bracket."
Evidence Summary: "Once you get to the tippie tops, on your ten millionth, sometimes you see tax rates as high as 60 percent or 70 percent," Ocasio-Cortez said. The proposal also includes a job-guarantee program offering “a living wage job to every person who wants one;” a “just transition” for workers affected by climate change; basic income programs; universal health care and more. The text of the new bill is not yet available.

Claim: "For the first time since 1990, American manufacturers are creating new jobs."
Evidence Summary: The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers' claims jumped. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. The Institute for Supply Management’s most recent manufacturing index, while still expansionary at 54.1, fell by 5.2 points, the largest month-to-month drop since the financial crisis. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created added under Trump, compared to a loss of over 200,000 under Obama.

Claim: "Household income in America has gone down for families an average of $4,000 in the last four years while it went up $5,000 under Mitt Romney when he was governor of Massachusetts"
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. Over this same period, the median Black family saw their wealth drop by more than half. Meanwhile, the number of households with $10m or more skyrocketed by 856%. If the trajectory of the past three decades continues, by 2050 the median white family will have $174,000 of wealth, while Latino wealth will be just $8,600 – and Black median wealth will head downward to $600.

Claim: "The average bonus [on Wall Street] is about $100,000...The bonuses on Wall Street are down 44 percent."
Evidence Summary: The news comes as big US banks are expected to reveal the scale of bankers bonuses as Wall Street lenders report their 2018 full-year earnings. Citi will be the first to report on Monday, followed by Wells Fargo and JP Morgan on Tuesday, and Bank of America and Goldman Sachs a day later. Morgan Stanley will cap off the week with its own report on Thursday. The average annual wage in the industry climbed 58.5 percent from $110,777 in 2008, to $175,566 in 2017.

Claim: "Says that Republicans bragged about how every bill was going to be paid for, right from the beginning and that the first vote, the repeal of health care reform, violated that rule."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) also came out against the pay-go provisions, but stopped short of saying he’d vote against the rules package. The fight foreshadows the battle to come in the House Democratic Caucus this year. Ocasio-Cortez had voted with Khanna to oppose the so-called "pay-go" rule. That rule requires that new mandatory spending for entitlements or tax cuts be offset by other separate revenue increases (such as tax hikes) or budget-cutting measures.

Claim: Thousands (in China) owe their jobs to Mitt Romneys companies.
Evidence Summary: The reshuffling of the world’s economic superpowers is already reverberating in the U.S. The manufacturing industry has boomed after suffering for years. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created added under Trump, compared to a net loss of over 200,000 under Obama. Mitt Romney helped create or rebuild great companies like Staples, Sealy (the mattress firm) and the Sports Authority, creating wealth not only for his firm Bain Capital but also for investors. Those businesses also created thousands of jobs.

Claim: "The financial services regulatory bill ""will end taxpayer bailouts."""
Evidence Summary: The new proposal “prevents eviction, foreclosure, repossession, and loss of insurance,” Sen. Brian Schatz said. Some banks have already moved to forgive late payments and service fees from furloughed federal workers. The Trump administration has outlined plans to ease bank rules, overhaul corporate governance, and boost financial innovation. But with Democrats now in control of the House of Representatives and the 2020 presidential campaign expected to stymie policymaking, industry lobbyists worry the shutdown will further limit the narrow window for the new rules to kick in.

Claim: "Recovery.gov listed congressional districts that ""do not exist."""
Evidence Summary: Township offices in Lake and Porter counties are bracing themselves for what may be a deluge of federal workers affected by the partial government shutdown. There are 5,167 federal employees living in the First Congressional District, according to Kevin Spicer, spokesman for U.S. Rep. Pete Visclosky, D-Gary. The controversy over who will represent North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District grew even more uncertain Wednesday when the state board of elections canceled a Jan. 11 public hearing on allegations of illegal activity in the district.

Claim: "According to the Congressional Budget Office, as many as 20 million Americans could lose their employer-based insurance thanks to Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: The longest-ever U.S. government shutdown is posing new risks to the Affordable Care Act and some health services. Ongoing staffing shortages at the Internal Revenue Service could lead to higher premiums for some consumers who need tax credits to help pay their health-insurance premiums, Democrats say. The critics claimed these changes and others like them would lead to “higher costs and less coverage” and would “eliminate protections for people with pre-existing conditions” The latest data shows those criticisms are unfounded.

Claim: "The president has said the national security threat facing America, the top one, is global warming."
Evidence Summary: Vermont senator and likely 2020 presidential candidate said human-caused global warming should top the president’s priorities. ‘Mr. President, we don’t need to create artificial crises, we have enough real crises.’ ‘‘Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold," Trump tweeted on Sunday. “The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive," Trump wrote in 2012.

Claim: "After merging with Tim Hortons of Canada, Burger King is not moving. Our headquarters will remain in Miami and (we) will continue to pay all of our federal, state and local U.S. taxes."
Evidence Summary: Mondelez joins a growing list of food and beverage companies relocating to Chicago. Caterpillar moved from Peoria to Deerfield. Kraft Heinz moved from Northfield to the Aon Center. Ferrara Candy recently announced plans to move from Oakbrook Terrace to Chicago’s Old Post Office.“We’re privileged to be part of this rapidly-developing scene.” – Mondelez spokesman Thomas Armitage. “We sought a location that reflects our new, dynamic and more consumer-centric growth culture, and which will make existing and future colleagues proud to be working at the global headquarters,” Chairman and CEO Dirk Van de Put said.

Claim: "John McCain's health care plan ""won't guarantee coverage of cancer screenings or maternity care."""
Evidence Summary: California and the other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. “The law couldn’t be more clear — employers have no business interfering in women’s healthcare decisions,” California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement Sunday. The U.S. Department of Justice said in court documents the rules “protect a narrow class of sincere religious and moral objectors from being forced to facilitate practices that conflict with their beliefs”

Claim: "After the 9/11 terrorist attacks grounded commercial air traffic, there was a temperature drop while the airplanes werent flying, for the week afterwards."
Evidence Summary: About 1,000 flights affecting 140,000 passengers were cancelled or diverted across three days. Two people were arrested and released without charge. A couple of days later, a leaked draft report from US scientists across 13 federal agencies warned of a worst-case scenario of 18F warming over the Arctic between 2071 and 2100. The report also noted that the Arctic was losing more than 3.5% of its sea ice coverage every decade, that the extent of the September sea ice had declined more than 10% per decade.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney and George Allen would overturn Roe v. Wade and allow states to end safe, legal abortion even in cases of rape, incest or when a womans life is at risk."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has shown a willingness to subordinate principle to self-interest in the past. The former Massachusetts governor is a strong supporter of abortion rights. But he has also called for defunding of Planned Parenthood, which he opposed in the 2012 presidential election. He is now the Republican nominee for president in the 2020 election. The GOP is expected to win the White House, but Democrats are expected to take control of the House of Representatives in the midterm elections. The race for the Republican presidential nomination will be decided in November.

Claim: "In 1978, a student who worked a minimum-wage summer job could afford to pay a years full tuition at the 4-year public university of their choice."
Evidence Summary: The cost of living in the U.S. has been rising for decades. The cost of education has also been rising as a share of national income has been on the rise. In the past, the cost of college has been based on the percentage of a student's income. Now, it's based on how much they earn from their education. The costs of living have been rising since the 1970s because of a lack of funding for higher education, according to a report by the University of California, San Francisco.

Claim: "In Wisconsin, 6.2 percent of the population is black yet 24 percent of all state abortions are on African-Americans."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule on an anti-abortion law in the next few months. The law would require abortion clinics to have admitting privileges for women in certain states. The U.N. estimates that by 2020, more than 142 million women and girls will have been born without the right to an abortion. In a recent poll, 65 percent of Americans said they would like to see more restrictions on abortion in the future. The majority of Americans also said they want to see an end to discrimination against women in the workplace.

Claim: "Says Rick Perry told students he couldnt attend a gubernatorial forum due to scheduling conflicts, then on forum day tweeted that hed just been running with his dog."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump responded to a withering essay by Sen.-elect Mitt Romney by tweeting Wednesday morning that he has "won big" The president asked, "...is he a Flake? I hope not" — in a reference to Jeff Flake, the outgoing Republican senator from Arizona who has been a severe critic of Trump. When US Congress reconvenes on Thursday, Mr Trump faces a new challenge on the domestic front - the Republicans strengthened their hold of the Senate but lost the House of Representatives.

Claim: "Fred's never had a 100 percent record on right-to-life in his Senate career. The records reflect that. And he doesn't support the human life amendment, which is most amazing because that's been a part of the Republican platform since 1980."
Evidence Summary: Bennet said he was "thinking about it ... like every other person in [the Senate.]" Joe Biden said that white Americans need to acknowledge and admit the fact that systemic racism still exists and must be rooted out. Biden defended the speech, explaining that he was proud of Rep. Fred Upton's work on a cancer research bill and argued that not everything should be viewed through the lens of partisanship. Two Republican senators said they met with Chuck Johnson to discuss DNA sequencing research, an astounding subject to have covered with a supporter of neo-Nazism.

Claim: "In 1928 school boards sent home letters with children saying that if Al Smith is elected president, you will not be allowed to have or read a Bible."
Evidence Summary: Indiana state senator is pushing a bill that advances Christian beliefs in the state’s public and charter schools. The bill would also allow public schools to teach creationism and offer a survey course on world religions. Critics say the measures come perilously close to violating the constitutional line between church and state – and in practice, might overstep it. So far this year, Bible literacy bills have been introduced in Florida, Indiana, Missouri, North Dakota, Virginia and West Virginia, according to the ACLU.

Claim: "Usually it's about $900 a month to get health coverage. (Florida's program has) reduced that, on average, to about $150 a month."
Evidence Summary: High premiums for people who earn too much to qualify for federal tax credits have been a problem on the health insurance exchanges since they began for the 2014 enrollment period. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014, according to federal data compiled by the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. The uninsured rate in New York City is about 7 percent, the same as New York state and lower than the national rate of 10 percent.

Claim: "Ohios judges, compared to other similar states, are being woefully underpaid."
Evidence Summary: America has not been a society where we are all subject to law equally. The notion that politicians and billionaires are supposed to be the same under the law as the poor and the oppressed is a powerful principle. The consequences of being charged with a misdemeanor, whether you are guilty or not, can be life-changing, especially if you are poor. Critics of how the criminal justice system deals with misdemeanors have described it as assembly line justice or McJustice. Jury pay is reliably lower than the minimum wage, making it unaffordable for many Americans to sit in judgment of their peers.

Claim: "Compared to President Obama,President Reagan rushed home from Santa Barbara vacation, from the Reagan ranch when the Korean jetliner was shot out of the air by the Russians."
Evidence Summary: Frida Ghitis: Nixon seems curiously in flux at 50th anniversary of his inauguration. She says Reagan's farewell address is a final testament of a president who had a genuine faith in the future. Ghitis says Reagan believed in the possibilities of a country that was forever reinventing itself. Ghits: Trump's point that everything is fine because he’s essentially home alone was an odd and troubling rejoinder to reassure the public, especially for those troubled by his isolation and those who recall Richard Nixon's final days as president.

Claim: "Says state Sen. Morgan Carrolls votes made it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first."
Evidence Summary: Elizabeth Warren has been accused of selling out to "powerful interests" on two issues. Elizabeth Healey says the New York magazine piece is misleading and gets Warren's position wrong. The Wall Street Journal editorial board's disdain for trial lawyers gets in the way of understanding the issues at the heart of the False Claims Act whistleblower lawsuits, Healey writes. Healey: The Sackler family used the power at their disposal to engineer an opioid crisis. It's pretty reprehensible conduct," Healey said.

Claim: "A far different picture from the prior eight years, which saw 115 increases in taxes and fees."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Baron said. Baron criticized the practice of larger tax levy increases and reliance on new construction. “Taxing bodies are allowed to ask for more than [they need] by the state, including the new developments,” he said.“We need to aggressively look for new revenues and look at ways to enhancing the quality of life to an extent people will say they’ll live here even if they do have to pay high taxes.”

Claim: "The Congressional Budget Office, a nonpartisan office, did an analysis and said that passing comprehensive immigration reform will reduce the federal deficit by $200 billion over the next decade."
Evidence Summary: In December, Trump said illegal immigration cost $250 billion per year. Two days later, he claimed, “illegal immigration cost our nation $275 billion a year.” Immigration policy experts told NBC News that while undocumented immigrants do incur costs at the federal state and local level, they also pay taxes. Existing border sections caused "illegal traffic" to decline to near the billions Trump has claimed. No new sections of " illegal traffic" have been built, and no new sections have been proposed.

Claim: "In 2001, former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan ""justified increasing spending and cutting taxes, saying that we didn't really need to pay down the debt."""
Evidence Summary: The release of the transcripts from the Fed’s eight policy meetings in 2013 gives more insight into policymakers’ thinking and deliberations during and after the 2007-2009 financial crisis and recession. The year 2013 marked a turning point in Fed policy as it took its first steps to end the massive support it had provided, including cutting interest rates to near zero and accumulating more than $4 trillion in bonds and mortgage-backed securities. The bond-purchase program, known as quantitative easing, was hugely controversial and had its critics within the Fed itself.

Claim: "Says his elections proposal would allow a potential of 168 hours (of early voting), which I think is the most weve ever had."
Evidence Summary: New York lawmakers say they plan to pass a number of voting reforms on Monday. One of the expected bills would establish an early voting period before any election (New York is one of just 12 states that do not have early voting) The bill would require local election boards to establish one early voting site for every 50,000 voters in their jurisdiction, though they could vote to authorize more. The measure would take effect for the 2019 general election and would require officials to establish 10 days of early voting that wraps up two days before the election.

Claim: "Sen. Obama ""made the very argument he is now criticizing back in November 2006."""
Evidence Summary: Pompeo directly repudiated Obama’s 2009 Cairo speech, which was an overture by the then-new president to the Islamic world. “There is a lot of ambitious language, but very little actual commitment of U.S. resources,” said Jon Alterman, director of the Middle East program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. On Twitter, Martin Indyk, who served in the Obama administration, called the speech “shameful Obama-bashing”

Claim: "In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria)."
Evidence Summary: Money invested in research and development reached $3.5bn (£2.8bn) in 2017. Largest funder was the US government, which through its National Institutes of Health provided 39% of the total. French President Emmanuel Macron is launching the latest round to replenish the Global Fund in Paris. The fund says progress has slowed down because of wavering political commitment, and increasing insecticide and drug resistance. Raising the target amount could help save 16 million lives, it is claimed.

Claim: "Says that under Mitt Romney, 89 million Americans could be denied coverage if they have a pre-existing condition."
Evidence Summary: About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Obama spent $7 billion to bring electricity to Africa, failed miserably."
Evidence Summary: President George Weah has been criticised for his personal nature of public infrastructure projects. He ordered the re-roofing of more than 200 houses in Monrovia's Gibraltar slum, where he was born and raised. A memo to the finance ministry ordering the transfer of nearly $1m in official funds to cover the costs was leaked to the media. The president has also been attacked for the failure of Solyndra, the notorious California solar company that defaulted on a $535 million Energy Department loan.

Claim: "The Rev. Rick Warren ""has called Christians who advance a social gospel Marxists."""
Evidence Summary: Jerry Falwell Jr. defended his consistent support for President Donald Trump and even claimed it may be “immoral’ to not support him. Falwell, who is president of Liberty University, also said there was nothing Trump could do that would endanger support from himself and other evangelicals. “It’s such a distortion of the teachings of Jesus to say that what he taught us to do personally — to love our neighbors as ourselves, help the poor — can somehow be imputed on a nation,” Falwell said.

Claim: "Says Jeb Bush doesnt believe in a path to citizenship. If he did at one time, he no longer does."
Evidence Summary: Trump on Saturday offered a three-year extension in protections for roughly 700,000 “dreamers” who were brought to the US illegally as children. Some conservatives dismissed that offer as being akin to an amnesty. Ann Coulter, the far-right author, said in a tweet: “Trump proposes amnesty. We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” The former Florida governor Jeb Bush was one of several candidates Trump defeated in the party’s 2016 presidential primary contest.

Claim: "The Medicare drug program resulted in the program coming in 40 percent under budget. ... And the reason it was, is because the design was right."
Evidence Summary: The government had acknowledged that it did not know the precise amount of the difference between what hospitals were paying for the drugs and what Medicare was reimbursing them. The program, created under Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act, is commonly known as the 340B program. A spokeswoman for Mr. Azar said Monday: “We are disappointed with the court’s ruling and are evaluating next steps.” The decision could increase costs for Medicare patients, who are generally responsible for 20 percent of the Medicare-approved amount for outpatient drugs.

Claim: "Says more than 8,000 people have supported her campaign as volunteers, donors and advisors and endorsers."
Evidence Summary: The California Democrat announced Tuesday that she had raised $1.5 million from roughly 38,000 donors in the first 24 hours after she made her 2020 plans official. Those initial donation numbers are competitive with Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign kickoff. For her first re-election campaign, she raised $3.2 million, ranking 41st among House candidates that year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. She beat that amount in 2016, raising $3,5 million even though she had no opponent.

Claim: "Re: (Marco) Rubios support of earmark ban: In 2002 alone, he requested 37 earmarks worth $43 million."
Evidence Summary: The FBI is investigating fake text messages sent to some House Republican lawmakers from someone impersonating a top aide to Vice President Mike Pence. The Trump administration has indefinitely postponed a proposed visit by a sanctioned Russian official to the U.S., a spokeswoman for NASA said. Gillibrand: "I think you do need to get money out of politics ... Today, the wealthiest, most powerful lobbyists and special interest groups get to write bills in the dead of night’“I would be supportive of earmarks and I’m not sure how that is going to resolve itself”

Claim: "The Seminole gambling compact offers $3 billion in guaranteed revenue, the largest share for any state in history."
Evidence Summary: The question for many lawmakers will be whether City Hall should be involved in regulating a casino owned by City Hall. We’ve long argued that letting Chicago regulate Chicago would be preposterous. The Justice Department’s unusual reversal this week of an opinion that paved the way for online gambling hewed closely to arguments made by lobbyists for casino magnate and top Republican donor Sheldon Adelson. A $5 million to $6 million loss in the budget because of the tax caps that take effect in 2020 “is a nightmare scenario that we are facing next year”

Claim: "There is a provision in the economic stimulus plan that means that ""students cannot meet together in their dorms, if that dorm has been repaired with this federal money, and have a prayer group or a Bible study."""
Evidence Summary: The 10,000 Meals Challenge fund has a goal to acquire enough money to pay for10,000 meals. Federal financial aid in the form of Pell Grants and student loans is not affected. Friends from church provided $750 in cash and $500 gift cards for groceries, and the family's landlord pushed back the deadline for January’s rent. The donation total reached $15,000 by Thursday, money which will cover the costs of “more than 5,000 meal,” the school said.

Claim: "#Business formation is still on the rise in Ohio! So far in 2011 weve assisted w/ 44,443 new business filings."
Evidence Summary: According to the latest data from Gallup, U.S. small business owners are more optimistic about business conditions now than at any point in recorded history. Since President Trump was elected, small business creation has surged, with new business applications increasing by 16 percent -- nearly twice as fast as the two year period prior to his election. According to a recent Job Creators Network/ScottRasmussen.com Weekly Pulse poll, millions more Americans plan to start their own business this year. Despite all the turmoil in this world, Illinoisans continue to build, innovate, create and dream.

Claim: "The Obama administration notified Poland and the Czech Republic about cancellation of major missile-defense facilities ""at the last minute in midnight phone calls."""
Evidence Summary: The Pentagon review acknowledges that the Russian and Chinese arsenals are far too large and sophisticated to be countered by missile defence. The announcement comes hours after Trump told House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) that he was canceling her delegation trip overseas. In response to Pelosi’s request that Trump delay his address because of shutdown-linked security concerns, Trump replied in an apparent retaliation that he would cancel her trip to Brussels and Afghanistan, scheduled to begin that day. Trump announced a denuclearization deal with Kim Jong Un at the conclusion of a high-profile summit in Singapore in June.

Claim: "In 2008 (Mandel) was re-elected to a second term, representing a district with a 2:1 Democrat to Republican voter ratio."
Evidence Summary: In Maryland, Democratic Rep. David Trone was sworn into office Thursday to represent a district that runs from the Washington suburbs to the rural northwest corner of the state. Democrats who controlled the redistricting process overhauled the district in 2011, turning what had been a reliably Republican stronghold into a Democratic district. Several Republican voters sued over the new district's boundaries, claiming it unfairly favored Democrats. A day after the November elections, a three-judge panel agreed with the Republicans and ordered Maryland officials to draw a new congressional redistricting plan that isn't tainted by partisan gerrymandering.

Claim: "Obama ""hasn't been to Iraq in years."""
Evidence Summary: Vice President Mike Pence was called out on his “ISIS has been defeated” comments during an interview on CBS’ “Face the Nation” “Do you regret, in hindsight, saying that? Their deaths seem to contradict what you said,” host Margaret Brennan said. Pence continued, “Let me be clear: President Obama withdrew American forces from Iraq precipitously in 2011. ISIS rose up virtually out of the desert, overran vast areas of Iraq and Syria.”

Claim: "An audit of the last census found that over 370,000 people living in Texas were not counted, and our state lost an estimated $1 billion in federal funds as a result."
Evidence Summary: An undercount could skew countless decisions on matters like where to locate new stores or where to open or close medical clinics. Census Bureau’s staff estimated that adding a citizenship question could depress responses in households with at least one non-citizen by as much as 5.8%. The survey is used to determine how congressional seats are allocated to the states and how roughly $675 billion in federal funds are disbursed. The Trump administration argued that it was well within its authority to add the question and that doing so would not depress the overall response rate.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obamasown administration has done five environmental impact assessments of the Keystone XL pipeline, all of which have said it would have a minimum impact on the environment."
Evidence Summary: Keystone XL project is being delayed by a federal court that found the Trump Administration didn't fully consider the environmental effects when it approved the permit. The 1,184-mile pipeline is intended to ship up to 830,000 barrels a day of crude oil from Alberta, Canada to the U.S. Gulf Coast. Environmentalists and Native American groups had sued to stop the pipeline, citing property rights and possible spills. A hearing on the proposed pipeline is scheduled for Monday in Great Falls, Montana.

Claim: "Every time we put a ballot issue on, it costs a million dollars."
Evidence Summary: Supporters and opponents of Hinsdale High School District 86’s April referendum are gearing up for another expensive campaign. The Yes for D86 School Referendum committee received $75,580 in donations and in-kind contributions in a failed attempt to pass the November referendum. The largest donor in the last quarter for the Vote No campaign was Jorie L.P, which lists a Las Vegas address on the reports. Only one candidate appeared to waver — Preckwinkle, when it came to the CTA question.

Claim: "Cuts in local government and school funding in John Kasichs budget caused many communities to seek school levies, local tax increases, layoffs."
Evidence Summary: Andrew Cuomo surprised towns and villages with a proposed cut in their state operating aid. Cuomo reduced the state’s aid and incentives for municipalities program, or AIM, from $715 million to $656 million in the budget plan he released this week. The crisis is piling pressure on the Los Angeles mayor, Eric Garcetti, who has no direct control over the school district but knows the optics are bad for a possible presidential bid. “I’m not against taxes and funding our schools as that is our future,” said Oswego resident John Secor.

Claim: One out of every three automobile fatalities can be attributed to alcohol.
Evidence Summary: Wisconsin has landed among the top 15 states for drunken-driving arrests every year from 2005 through 2017, according to the latest statistics compiled by Mothers Against Drunk Drivers. In 2015 alone, nearly 200 people were killed and an additional 2,900 were injured in alcohol-related crashes in the state. A recent study from the Columbia University School of Public Health found that while alcohol increased the risk of causing a fatal car crash five times, testing positive for pot increased it by 62 percent. Some researchers think the strength of the economy can influence fatality statistics.

Claim: "In Texas public schools, we spend an average of $12,000 per pupil per year."
Evidence Summary: Public school system claimed it “only” spent $12,073 per pupil in 2017. This number excludes the cost of buildings and other depreciable assets. A study noted that were these expenses to be included, the per-pupil cost would more than double the official figure. Today's teachers say the public schools are doing a better job of educating students than they did 10 years ago — by 2-1, 62 percent to 30 percent. The public also generally agreed, by 68 percent to 25 percent in the September survey.

Claim: "Says MarkKirk called for the mass arrest of 18,000 African Americans andwas apparently fine with Trumps #StillTooRacist call for mass deportation."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Steve King asked The New York Times when phrases like white supremacy and white nationalism became offensive. The House overwhelmingly passed a resolution that cited Mr. King in condemning white supremacy. But even as they piled on their condemnation, President Trump used Twitter to mock Senator Elizabeth Warren for not announcing her presidential exploratory committee at Wounded Knee or Little Bighorn. "This isn't funny, it's cold, callous, and just plain racist," tweeted Ruth H. Hopkins, a Dakota/Lakota Sioux writer who has contributed at Teen Vogue.

Claim: "Under Gov. John Kasichs budget proposal, the top one percent in Ohio will pay $10,000 less in income tax each year, but Ohios working and middle class families will pay more."
Evidence Summary: Oxfam: U.S. tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," O'Brien said. Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker failed on both counts when he tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million.

Claim: "Says Syrian refugees are not being vetted, and the FBI is not even being told where they are."
Evidence Summary: The White House's claims on the terror threat at the border have emerged as a major point of contention in recent days. The administration has said that nearly 4,000 people on the FBI terror watchlist have been stopped attempting to enter the country. Democrats have argued the number of dangerous people cited by the administration is exaggerated. The State Department issued a report in September finding "no credible evidence indicating that international terrorist groups have established bases in Mexico" The U.S. southern border remains vulnerable to potential terrorist transit.

Claim: "More than 40,000 troops are still stationed in Afghanistan with no clear objective. Even in the best case, by the end of the year at least 10,000 American soldiers will still be on the ground."
Evidence Summary: Pentagon officials earlier this month said they planned to withdraw 7,000 troops from Afghanistan by the summer. Currently, about 14,000 American soldiers are deployed there, mostly to train and advise Afghan security forces and carry out counter-terrorism operations. Retired Gen. Stanley McChrystal said the U.S. had, "basically traded away the biggest leverage point we have" Trump is right — more so than the many generals and other national security officials who for many years have argued that staying just a little longer will guarantee ultimate success.

Claim: "On (Tom) Wolfs watch, taxes were high, killing 100,000 PA jobs."
Evidence Summary: President George W. Bush left office after a failed bid for re-election. He signed legislation that stripped power from his successor, Gov. Chris Christie. The move was criticized by many as a betrayal of his campaign promise to the people of New Hampshire. The new governor has vowed to push for a graduated income tax and a higher minimum wage. He also wants to legalize recreational marijuana, which is illegal in the U.S. and is punishable by up to 10 years in prison. The bill was approved by a vote of the state legislature, but not the House.

Claim: "German citizens were disarmed by their government in the late 1930s, which allowed the Nazis to carry out their evil intentions with relatively little resistance."
Evidence Summary: Within 11 months Nazi Germany was defeated. In the weeks after the revolt, Germany’s new Social Democratic government succumbed to a humiliating peace treaty at Versailles. Soon, a far-fetched but emotionally resonant narrative swept the nation: The German military, large sections of the public came to believe, remained undefeated. It was only because of the traitors in their own midst, from the sailors in Kiel to the politicians in Berlin, that they had stopped fighting. Within two decades, German soldiers were once again setting down their boots on foreign soil.

Claim: "Says if Oregon had limited its budget growth to the rate of population growth plus the rate of inflation, the states all-funds budget would be about $27 billion today, not $60 billion."
Evidence Summary: The union and the district are locked in a bitter fight over how the district should use the money it already has. The union has pointed to a nearly $2 billion reserve, which it says could be used to pay for more educators. But Mr. Beutner has said the district is already spending far more than it brings in. State fiscal analysts said last month that state revenues will increase by $442.8 million in 2020 and $386 million in 2021. But a big increase in funding for the embattled Indiana Department of Child Services and a jump in Medicaid expenses are projected to consume nearly the entire increase.

Claim: "Before this (federal health care) law was enacted, Florida parents ...were able to purchase inexpensive child-only coverage for their children. The laws consumer protections have now eliminated that choice in Florida."
Evidence Summary: The White House held an event to give poor people a chance to tell their stories. The event was held a few days before Mother’s Day, to drum up support for the Affordable Care Act. The mother of three says her family has a long history of struggles with health insurance. She was denied coverage when her first child was born with health issues. The White House says the changes to the law will help millions of Americans get health insurance, but critics say it will hurt those with pre-existing conditions.

Claim: This Congressadjourned earliest of any time in congressional history before an election.
Evidence Summary: "This probably is the earliest we've ever seen anyone in politics running for higher office to come to King Day at the Dome," said Donfra Miller, who brought his three children to the march. Lendora Nowlin agrees, saying all politicians need to do more to show black voters they care about their communities. The 116th Congress gaveled into session Thursday, swathed in history as lawmakers returned Nancy Pelosi to the House speaker's office and ushered in a diverse class of Democratic freshmen.

Claim: "Challenger Tim Tuggey is a lobbyist who donated over $41,000 to Democrats who support abortion and same-sex marriage."
Evidence Summary: Democratic candidates in the general election collected nearly $296 million in small donations, more than three times the $85 million collected by Republicans. The performance of candidates like former Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-Texas) — who narrowly lost to GOP Sen. Ted Cruz — established the political potency of swearing off super and corporate PACs, although not without some pushback. The question now is whether Democrats “can withstand the inevitable pressure to adapt to the growth of lobbyist-run PACs and fund-raisers,” the Brennan Center writes.

Claim: "In contrast to President Barack Obama, who is not acting presidential, President Ronald Reagan would never go into the Oval Office without his jacket on thats how much he revered the presidency."
Evidence Summary: Nixon read every previous inaugural address, especially admiring Lincoln’s second in 1865. Reagan believed in the possibilities of a country that was forever reinventing itself. Reagan was a practical man, and he knew, as he put it, that “because we’re a great nation, our challenges seem complex. It will always be this way. But as long as we remember our first principles and believe in ourselves, the future will be ours.’“That speech is the antithesis of the hard edge and the hard line that people think of Nixon,” Buchanan said 50 years later.

Claim: "The American people say, dont touch Social Security, dont touch Medicare, dont cut defense. Thats 84 percent of the federal budget."
Evidence Summary: "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he said. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors" "The American people are very conservative in the sense of not wanting radical change quickly. It just doesn’t work," he added. "I think the message has to be we’re a country that is good, that’s always been good"

Claim: On the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Evidence Summary: Rebranded Trade Deal Gives Member Countries An Edge Over The U.S. The GOP-controlled House approved the fast-track power, known as Trade Promotion Authority, in 2015. Critics of TPA argue that it deprives Congress of the essential right to debate and amend trade agreements before an up-or-down floor vote. Many Democrats also viewed the vote on TPA as a de-facto referendum on then-President Barack Obama’s 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.

Claim: "Obama's Ten Point Plan to 'Change' The Second Amendment.Ban the manufacture, sale and possession of handguns."
Evidence Summary: The new conservative majority will likely extend the Second Amendment beyond the front door. Lower courts will strike down long-standing restrictions on the public carrying of firearms. The case at hand, New York State Rifle & Pistol Association v. New York, is an ideal vehicle for gun-rights activists. The goal is to prohibit the government from barring “concealed carry” and “open carry’ of firearms, allowing most Americans to possess a gun in public, whether it’s hidden or flaunted.

Claim: "As Alaskas attorney general, (U.S. Senate candidate Dan) Sullivan successfully fought to protect our Second Amendment rights and passed stand your ground."
Evidence Summary: The LGBT civil rights group Lambda Legal said the court’s decision was “perplexing, to say the least” The group is involved with one of the court challenges to the transgender military restrictions. The court also announced on Tuesday it will hear its first case about the second amendment since 2010. The case is a challenge to a New York City law that prohibits people licensed to have guns in their homes from transporting the weapons outside the city. “Everyday Americans should know their basic civil and constitutional rights,” he replied.

Claim: "Says his political opponents brought 100,000 protesters into our state."
Evidence Summary: White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was fact-checked on "Fox News Sunday" She claimed that 4,000 "known or suspected terrorists" had come into the U.S. illegally. Host Chris Wallace pointed out that the figure stemmed from people captured at airports. "Wait, wait, wait — I know the statistic; I didn't know you were going to use it," Wallace replied. "But I studied up on this. Do you know where those4,000 people come or where they’re captured? Airports," Sanders responded.

Claim: "Rural schools ""face the highest dropout rates, the lowest college enrollment rates, have the lowest average teacher salaries..."""
Evidence Summary: As people moved toward cities and the Sun Belt, many rural universities have fallen on hard times. As fewer college-educated young people remain in rural locations, those regions become less attractive to other young grads. Employers, for their part, increasingly are focusing on urban locations to recruit these workers. Added to the mix is the country's growing student loan debt, which places more pressure on grads to seek higher-paying jobs -- which are more plentiful in cities. "Right now we are experiencing the greatest opportunity gap between rural and urban places in history," said Matt Dunne, the founder of the Center on Rural Innovation.

Claim: How do Jeb Bush and Donald Trump differ on immigration? Spoiler alert: They dont.
Evidence Summary: Trump on Saturday offered a three-year extension in protections for roughly 700,000 “dreamers’ who were brought to the US illegally as children. Some conservatives dismissed that offer as being akin to an amnesty. Ann Coulter, the far-right author, said in a tweet: “Trump proposes amnesty. We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” The former Florida governor Jeb Bush, who was perceived as soft on immigration by the Republican right, was one of several candidates Trump defeated in the 2016 presidential primary contest.

Claim: "Texas #2 in nation for new gun purchases, behind California."
Evidence Summary: Illinois is the largest single source for guns later used in crimes in Chicago. Weapons also make their way here by way of states such as Indiana, Mississippi and Wisconsin. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. California has a wide array of new gun control laws that have come into effect this year, including a mandate that applicants for concealed carry licenses undergo a minimum of eight hours training and demonstrate proficiency. There's also a law prohibiting anyone convicted of a misdemeanor domestic violence offense from possessing a firearm.

Claim: "In the 1970s, the swine flu broke out . . . under another Democrat, President Jimmy Carter."
Evidence Summary: As candidates begin to emerge and maneuver for the 2020 election, we're going to revisit a presidential nomination battle. In the late 1970s, inflation and unemployment were high, American hostages were being held in Iran. So in 1980, Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy, the last of three charismatic brothers who would seek the presidency, took on incumbent President Jimmy Carter. The result, our guest Jon Ward says, was a civil war within the Democratic Party that would have far-reaching consequences. He's currently senior political correspondent for Yahoo News and hosts a podcast called "The Long Game"

Claim: Even the employees union for the IRS -- the very people in charge of enforcing this law -- are begging to be let out from under this law.
Evidence Summary: Filing returns is the most direct way millions of Americans interact with the federal government. Lawmakers have long been reluctant to mess with people’s refunds for fear of riling a vast swath of middle-class voters. The IRS has recalled more than 30,000 furloughed IRS employees, and announced it is easing penalties for people who underpaid their taxes last year. The National Treasury Employees' union, which represents some 70,000 IRS workers, has filed two lawsuits against the government.

Claim: "While Act 10 allowed (Milwaukee County) to save some money, it was millions short of what we needed to fill the hole left by the $28 million cut in state aid."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job. At one point, he offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. There were some concerns raised about the bill, even among those who supported it. The bill is in response to calls for consolidation and less government, and the long-term aim is to save money through consolidation, his spokesman said. The new funding formula is better than any the state has had for years, he said.

Claim: "Under the Obama administration, we are drilling and producing more domestic energy supplies than we ever had before."
Evidence Summary: The last 15 years have ushered in an American energy renaissance. New technologies such as fracking and horizontal drilling have enabled developers to tap huge underground energy reserves. U.S. net energy imports have fallen a remarkable 95 percent since 2008. The United States is now well on its way to achieving the once unthinkable: complete energy independence, says Goldwein. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says.

Claim: "Since World War II, only Gerald Ford and Bill Clinton have had worse ratings after seven months than President Obama."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump's approval rating has been relatively stable over the course of his presidency. By contrast, President Barack Obama never fell below 40 percent in polling by Gallup. Five presidents since Gallup began measuring presidential approval have had their rating fall into the 20s at least once, including Harry S. Truman, Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter, George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush. Last year, a poll of nearly 200 political science scholars ranked him 44th out of the 44 men who have occupied the post.

Claim: "Under Barack Obama's health care proposal, ""if you've got a health care plan that you like, you can keep it."""
Evidence Summary: Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act. They complained about the law nonstop that entire time, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began. The Trump administration in late 2017 made some bold health-care reforms that appear to be moving things in the right direction. It would break free from ObamaCare’s regulatory grip and provide Americans with more options to meet their health- care needs.

Claim: "After a federal inquiry corroborated Hillary Clinton on Whitewater, the next day, there was nothing in the media about it."
Evidence Summary: The liberal media jumped for joy when BuzzFeed published a bogus report alleging that the president told his attorney Michael Cohen to lie in congressional testimony about his business dealings with Russia. The further the disputed report traveled, the more it seemed to help Mr. Trump, who is forever on the lookout for material for the most intensive anti-press branding campaign ever to come from the Oval Office. Even after the special counsel’s statement on Friday night, Rachel Maddow of MSNBC speculated that it wasn’t a true denial.

Claim: "The major immigration issue was about Poles, and Bulgarians, and Romanians, and that they werent contributing economically. The unemployment rate among Poles in Britain is lower than the unemployment rate among Brits."
Evidence Summary: Freedom of movement for EU workers has been front and centre in the debate. Fear of foreign workers undercutting wages and working conditions helped fuel the leave campaign. But attitudes to migrant workers in Britain are often seen as a case apart. Free movement of people evokes hostility in other EU countries too. The belief that foreigners take away jobs from local workers is a textbook example of false information. An 1893 magazine described immigrants and foreigners as “deceitful, effeminate, irreligious, immoral, unclean and unwholesome”

Claim: "Under the health care law, everybody will have lower rates, better quality care and better access."
Evidence Summary: ‘This is the new theme, for two years until the Wall is finished (under construction now), of the Republican Party. Use it and pray!’ Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. Two minutes later, the president tweeted: ‘BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!' The slogan would seemingly replace the old, 'BUILD THAT WALL’ that so many Trump supporters have chanted at rallies across the country since he announced his intention to run for president in 2015.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton wants to ""wave the white flag of surrender and set a date for withdrawal."""
Evidence Summary: The House already has passed the funding bill that the GOP-controlled Senate approved last month. Republican senators, especially those who are up for re-election next year, have grown increasingly anxious about the potential political costs for them back home from the extended shutdown. Pelosi said she had not received a response from Mr. Trump to a letter she sent him on Wednesday suggesting he delay his speech or deliver it in writing. She would not say what she would do if the president refused to agree to her proposal.

Claim: "All members of Congress are required to be in Obamacare, but Obama and members of his administration have their own gold-plated health care plans that theyre in."
Evidence Summary: Andy Slavitt: Health care continues to be a top issue for Americans. He says Democrats will need to introduce bills that reinforce the ACA's original protections. Slavitt says the idea of a Medicare-for-all program is "fool's gold" He says the new Congress should push to expand access to care and protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions. The House will vote on whether to affirm the House's intervention in the lawsuit against the White House's handling of the Obamacare lawsuit.

Claim: "The United States is no longer top nation in the globe on infrastructure, having fallen to 15th."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has a great economic story to tell. Number one in the World, by far! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 22, 2019 The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) is encouraged that both President Trump and the new House majority have signaled that infrastructure is an area for bipartisanship. The first step Congress and the Trump administration should take is to address three major infrastructure priorities at the federal level: fixing the Highway Trust, building new roads and bridges and investing in renewable energy.

Claim: "Average families are spending roughly $2,000 more a year on energy costs. ... It's like a $2,000 energy tax in just the last seven years, more than three times what the typical American family received from the Bush tax cuts."
Evidence Summary: The Green New Deal would force families to pay more to heat, cool and provide electricity to their homes. It would raise the same costs for businesses, farmers, government and organizations, driving up their operating costs – and raising the prices for just about all the good and services Americans buy. Because firms and individuals are using less energy, that has offset the rise in energy prices. Other factors have to be taken into account, such as energy imported via cables from mainland Europe, population growth and shifts from old energy-intensive industries.

Claim: "Rhode Island could tell you who has a camper, but we couldnt figure out who has a gun."
Evidence Summary: J.B. Pritzker recently signed a law that will require state licensing of gun dealers. Police said Britten knew his alleged assailant, who fled the scene on foot. "All these guys do is think and hatch plans and figure out how to get weapons. It's like a molotov cocktail waiting to explode," one man wrote. "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets and the trauma that is turning our young people into victims and perpetrators of violence?"

Claim: "A state agency wanted to fire an employee who spent four hours per day watching pornography, but the state employment commission reinstated the person."
Evidence Summary: In 2013, the Arizona Department of Health Services found that a male employee mistreated some patients by making sexually explicit remarks about them. In 2017, state investigators cited the facility for providing inadequate privacy to patients while they were naked or being showered. A former student told the IG he was touched inappropriately by the teacher about 30 years ago when the educator worked for another school district. The teacher ultimately pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor battery charge, was sentenced to probation and public service and did not have to register as a sex offender.

Claim: "If we increase fuel efficiency standards to 40, 45 miles a gallon, we would have to import zero oil from the Middle East."
Evidence Summary: Lower gas prices "lead to more investment in low fuel economy cars and more driving," says Borenstein. "That means even less progress on fighting climate change, which we know is largely man made," he says. A carbon tax is a tax on existence, because all aspects of living require energy, and hydrocarbons provide 80% of America’s energy, more for the rest of the world. Ford, Fiat Chrysler and General Motors are canceling some or all of their sedan lines.

Claim: "Today, home sales are up nearly 50 percent from where they were in the worst of the crisis."
Evidence Summary: Housing is not the national obsession it was in the last decade. New mortgage applications of home buyers nationwide during the week ending Jan. 11 soared to their highest level since 2010. New-home construction slowed, home-price gains moderated and sentiment among home builders’... but combined with other recent trends, the decline in mortgage rates should be encouraging for anyone seriously in the market for a home. BBC Scotland is investigating the country's housing sector, asking these big questions and explaining what is going on.

Claim: "The McCain campaign ""did not elaborate"" on Obama's ties to ACORN."
Evidence Summary: McConnell also chose not to distance Republican Senate candidates from Trump after the Access Hollywood video, in which Trump bragged about sexually assaulting women. The 2008 Obama campaign was required to file special notices regarding contributions received less than 20 days before the election. Obama for America (OFA), the principal campaign committee for candidate Barack Obama, did not file required 48-hour notices for 1,312 contributions totaling $ 1,972,266 received prior to the general election. They involved much more than the $280,000 Cohen facilitated.

Claim: "In the House health care bill, ""Something like 2 percent of the people would [be] eligible even to get the public option."""
Evidence Summary: A new poll from the Kaiser Family Foundation showed how Americans feel about proposals to expand government-run health programs. While a majority (56%) supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS], called Medicare-for-all, large majorities on both sides supported “buy-ins” to existing government- run health plans. In those scenarios, people who do not get health insurance from an employer could buy health insurance through either Medicaid or Medicare. Two-thirds of Republicans and wide margins of Democrats and independents supported the proposals.

Claim: "Anywhere in the world, when someone uses a mobile phone, e-mail, the Internet or GPS, they are enjoying the benefits of the American miracle."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. still enjoys a technological leadership that will keep it competitive with the Chinese, at least for the near-future. But the average American’s health remains worse and slower-improving than that of peers in other rich countries. American inventors create astonishing new ways to learn thanks to the power of video and the internet, many of them free of charge – but the average US high-school leaver tests more poorly in reading today than in 1992. The tools for becoming an entrepreneur appear to be more accessible than ever, for the student who learns coding online or the Uber driver.

Claim: "Says that in Texas, Republican nominees get 40 percent of the Latino vote on average."
Evidence Summary: California moved up its presidential primary — held in 2016 on June 7 — to March 3 for next year's election. That means California, the state with the largest number of eligible Latino voters, estimated by Pew Research Center at about 7.7 million in 2018, will join Texas in holding their primaries on Super Tuesday. Iowa’s caucuses on Feb. 3 as well as New Hampshire's primary on February. 11, 2020 still will precede the Texas and California primaries. “One in five American Latinos live in Texas and if you add California, you get substantial power of the Latino vote to really influence the Democratic Party,” said Cristina Tzintzún Ramírez, executive director of Jolt.

Claim: "The United States doesnt have the highest murder rate among developed countries. You look at Russia, you look at Brazil, those are countries that have 3 to 5 times higher murder rates than what we have here in the United States."
Evidence Summary: There’s no national database that breaks down crimes committed by native-born citizens or immigrants, or those in the country illegally. What available studies do show, however, is that overall, crime rates are lower among immigrant groups than they are among native- born Americans. "We need to make short-term interventions and much more longer-term ones to try and understand the complexities as to why people get caught up in violence," an immigration advocate says. "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets," the president says.

Claim: President Barack Obamas policies have resulted in gas prices being reduced from $3.07 per gallon when he was sworn in in 2009 to $2.30 today.
Evidence Summary: An oversupply of oil on the world market has triggered a steady slide in gas prices. Nationally, regular was averaging around $2.25 per gallon at the start of January. Just last summer, gas prices were at four-year highs. Experts said Trump can take some credit for the increased supply of gas that has driven prices lower. But fuel economics is a hugely complex subject, impacted by many variables, they said.. George Conway, attorney and husband of White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, called out President Donald Trump over a tweet taking credit for low gas Prices. Trump claimed a recent drop in fuel is “like another tax cut.”

Claim: "When (Marcy) Kaptur fought for the Democrats prescription drug benefit for seniors, (Dennis) Kucinich voted no."
Evidence Summary: With Democrats in control of the House and drug costs registering as a top issue with the public, now is the time to vote on allowing Medicare to negotiate prescription drug prices. A grassroots campaign to seat Democratic Reps. Pramila Jayapal (Wash.) and Ro Khanna (Calif.) as well as Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (N.Y.) on Ways and Means fell short last week. News broke on Thursday that Speaker Nancy Pelosi will support Democrat-led hearings for so-called Medicare for all legislation.

Claim: "The Obama administration willfully leaked the existence of STUXNET (a computer worm used against Iran), allowing our enemies to learn more of our secrets and of our operations."
Evidence Summary: Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats presented the strategy to his workforce on Tuesday. He pledged that spy agencies will continue “seeking the truth and when we find the truth, speaking the truth” Coats also promised more transparency, saying: “We need to be as open to the American people as we can, without compromising” secret information. The new strategy is broadly similar to the last iteration, published in 2014, that also focused on the threats from adversarial nation-states.

Claim: "When Susan Rice spoke about Benghazi on Sunday news shows, she said that al-Qaida might be involved, or other al-Qaida affiliates might be involved, or non-al-Qaida Libyan extremists, which I think demonstrates that there was no effort to play that down."
Evidence Summary: Judge Royce Lamberth ruled Tuesday that Susan Rice and Ben Rhodes must answer written questions about the State Department's response to the 2012 terror attack in Benghazi. The lawsuit by Judicial Watch – now with the U.S. Court of Appeals District of Columbia Circuit – was first filed in 2014 in an effort to obtain records related to Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server. The group sought documents about Rice's explanation immediately after the attack that characterized it as a protest turned violent instead of a deliberate terrorist assault. The deposition is part of Judicial Watch's inquiry into whether the State Dept. acted in bad faith by not telling a court for months that they had asked in mid-2014 for missing emails to be returned.

Claim: "Says that under President Obama, theres been a substantial increase in federal government jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. The White House has acknowledged that the administration’s updated projection of the impact of the partial government shutdown on economic growth has worsened.

Claim: "Says $1,100 of the tuition paid by every Oregon university student annually goes just to pay the costs of PERS."
Evidence Summary: The Chronicle of Higher Education, an industry journal, is one of many outlets that have been covering the recent events surrounding Secretary of Education Betsy Devos’ comments on Financial Aid. College tuition has been steadily skyrocketing for years and has no stop in sight. The issue is also one of transparency, as many students and parents don't understand the difference between tuition prices and what families actually paid. Only a quarter of college freshman and 38 percent of all undergraduates pay the full sticker price for their education.

Claim: "More than 32,000 Americans lose their lives to gun violence each year."
Evidence Summary: Nearly 40,000 Americans were killed with firearms in 2017, the majority of them gun suicides. "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets," Cohen says. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he adds. "We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control and ultimately fuel serious violence," he says. 'We are seeing an increase in this country in mass shootings and targeted attacks in which the perpetrator is motivated by some ideological belief'

Claim: "A bill to cap carbon emissions could cost Ohio 100,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: A new tax on carbon emissions is needed to combat climate change. The U.S. needs to reduce carbon emissions in order to reduce the impact of climate change on the economy. A carbon tax would also reduce the need to build new coal-fired power plants. A new carbon tax is also needed to reduce emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas that is linked to climate change, according to the World Resources Institute, a think tank that promotes sustainable development. A tax on CO2 emissions would also help reduce the cost of running a power plant.

Claim: "When the Constitution was written, (only) 20 to 25 percent of the people in the country could vote."
Evidence Summary: More than 10 percent of Florida's adult population was not eligible to vote. Desmond Meade who helped organize the referendum campaign says that changed Nov. 6. "We had over 5.1 million voters that voted yes on Amendment 4," he says. "Not one of those votes was based on fear, but rather votes of love." At the 1970 election when 18-year-olds entered the polling booth for the first time, they were voting after having assumed lots of legal rights and responsibilities. Neither of these things is true today.

Claim: "Says Obama flip-flopped on a gas-tax ""holiday."""
Evidence Summary: Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) called on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) directly, saying, “let’s vote to end the shutdown now in a bipartisan way” Democrats, meanwhile, have sought to put the shutdown blame squarely on the president, who shortly before it started said he would be “proud to shut down the government for border security” Mr Pence also said the tax return decision was a part of Mr Trump's directive to "mitigate the impact of the shutdown on everyday Americans"

Claim: "McCollum admitted he didn't think that the subprime mortgage crisis was a big deal, telling reporters he thought that the subprime collapse had been exaggerated by the media and investors and that 'it's not the end of the world.' "
Evidence Summary: Some economists think the biggest risk is that fear of the unknown could snowball and turn worry of impending economic decline into a self-fulfilling prophecy. “A quote wrongly attributed to Mark Twain fits here: history rarely repeats, but it does rhyme,” said Rasheed Saleuddin, a research associate at the University of Cambridge’s Judge Business School. The key question now is whether a bubble in a different corner of the debt market could trigger a market panic, he said.

Claim: "Every month, another 50,000 U.S.-born Hispanics turn 18 and become eligible to vote."
Evidence Summary: South Carolina saw a 30.1 percent increase in the amount of Hispanic eligible voters between 2014 and 2017, according to the Pew Research Center. Groups that work to mobilize more Hispanics to vote are accelerating and adjusting strategies for registering and turning out Latino voters earlier. “There’s going to be a litmus test. There is real economic suffering happening in this country, especially among younger voters and voters of color," said Mi Familia Vota executive director Ben Monterroso.

Claim: "Under Gov. Kasich, Ohio wages have increased by $10.3 billion."
Evidence Summary: Illinoisans in 2018, like Americans in 1980, saw a state in decline under four dreary years of the Rauner administration. Pritzker, like his predecessor, never held public office until his November victory, and has become our chief executive with a blank slate and a bank full of pledges. He also faces a slew of fiscal problems and the nagging issue of Illinoisans fleeing the Prairie State. One of the near-term fiscal problems is how to pay for those step raises granted state employees.

Claim: "New carbon regulations will increase electric bills by $17 billion every year and potentially put an average of 224,000 more people out of work every year."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. increased its carbon dioxide emissions in 2018, and a large part of the reason was one normally cited as a bonus — substantial economic growth. A booming American economy meant increased industrial production, more truck and air travel and more offices and other workplaces to heat. But they also lead to more investment in low fuel economy cars and more driving. And that means even less progress on fighting climate change, which we know is largely man made, the Rhodium Group said. The report emphasizes that the numbers are preliminary estimates.

Claim: "New Jersey has the highest property taxes in the nation and not by a little. They are the highest property taxes in the nation, more than double the national average."
Evidence Summary: Blue states like Connecticut, Illinois and New York with higher taxes are losing residents or gaining population at very low rates. No-income-tax states such as Florida, Nevada, Texas and Washington have grown at double-digit rates this decade. If thousands of people moved out of Illinois because of high property taxes, Democrats’ and House Speaker Mike Madigan’s master plan would be to raise taxes high enough that people won’t be able to sell their houses. We pay the highest local and state property taxes in the nation and something must be done.

Claim: "New tax increases that went into effect on Jan.1, 2015, all passed under the Affordable Care Act, aka Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: Republicans sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. Just because the new law helped to increase economic growth, “it doesn’t mean that it is going to paid for itself,” an economist says. The Tax Foundation predicts deficits will increase by $900 billion — double its original forecast. The Spanish American War tax, a tax on long distance phone calls in 1898 when only the very rich owned phones, is now hitting half of Americans.

Claim: "We were one of the first states in the U.S. to build sewers, to bring the treatment plant on line."
Evidence Summary: In 1972, Chicago opted to build the world’s largest sewers instead of making all possible efforts to keep rainwater out of them. Today, most U.S. cities whose combined sewer overflows are governed by consent decrees with the EPA are working on Chicago-style digs. St. Louis, which has the fourth-largest sewer system in the country, is under a consent decree to commit $4.7 billion to ending its overflows through deep tunnels. Philadelphia is trying to transform itself into a sponge with park space, street trees, and permeable pavement.

Claim: "Just on the issue of immigration alone, it is next to impossible to find a policy difference between (Donald) Trump and Congressman (Joe) Heck."
Evidence Summary: President Trump affirmed legal immigration as a great benefit for American society. Speaker Pelosi declared, “We all agree that we need to secure our borders.” But Democrats said the two sides remained far apart about what constituted the correct response to a humanitarian crisis. The White House aide who has been the architect of the president’s immigration policies and its public face, Stephen Miller, occupied a seat along the edge of the meeting, not at the table, according to attendees. He interjected memorably only once, to argue that the Flores agreement was creating a loophole for smugglers.

Claim: "$500 billion of the extension of the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy goes to 120,000 families."
Evidence Summary: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations, at a cost of $1.9 trillion over 10 years. A recent report found that $200 billion in benefits from the new law, out of a total of $275 billion, goes to the top 20 percent of households. White households will receive $2,020 on average in benefits compared with $970 and $840 for Latino and black households respectively. "The only winners in the race to the bottom on corporate tax are the wealthiest among us," O'Brien added.

Claim: "John McCain ""said publicly that Hillary Clinton would make a good president."""
Evidence Summary: McCain would send back nominations for people who were “totally unqualified” (in his words) or unresponsive to the Senate. He skewered nominees who would not give him straight answers and demanded accountability on behalf of his colleagues. A recent Unite America poll of voters in New Hampshire, home of the nation's first primary, found 61% would support their preferred candidate choosing their running mate from the other part of the party. Some loyalists have left open the possibility that Hillary Clinton would run herself in 2020.

Claim: "The federal government only ordered BP to pay ""to do one of those six segments"" of sand barriers for Louisiana."
Evidence Summary: By Dec. 31, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had nearly $700 million under contract for barriers in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas. Interior Department has recalled employees, including those at the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM), to continue working on permitting for onshore and offshore oil and gas drilling and testing. Gergel said in his decision that he would grant the stay, but said federal authorities cannot work on seismic permitting until the government re-opens and is funded.

Claim: "We reduced the government workforce by 13,000, 11 percent, during my eight years."
Evidence Summary: As the government shutdown enters its second month, we are witnessing an unprecedented effort by the administration to starve out federal employees. From Trump’s campaign pledge to abolish the Environmental Protection Agency, to his budget blueprint in 2017 proposing the elimination of 19 federal agencies, the president has been gunning for the federal sector for years.“We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending,” said Grover Norquist. “I am proud to be here to announce that I will do whatever it takes to remove a president.”

Claim: Federal law requires that hospitals treat people whether or not they can pay. So someone (who) doesnt have health insurance -- they can go to the hospital and get free care.
Evidence Summary: Proposed "public charge" rule could force illegal immigrants to choose health care or green card. Currently, people are considered public charges if they rely on cash assistance. Health plans are starting to pay for non-traditional services such as meals, transportation, housing and other forms of assistance to improve members’ health and reduce medical costs. "It’s the most expensive way to get health care," de Blasio said. "People are almost too scared to set foot in hospital.”

Claim: "NAFTA allows a lot of trucks from Mexico, for example, to leave there and ... drive straight through without even being inspected."
Evidence Summary: Sanders: "I'm not disagreeing with you that they're coming through airports. I'm saying that they come by air, by land and by sea" Most illegal drugs coming in from Mexico arrive in tractor-trailers and other vehicles at legal crossings. Sanders mentioned the throngs of Central American would-be immigrants arriving at the border; however, the great majority of these people are seeking asylum and present themselves, again, at legal points of entry. "Where this appealing brand on the outside is hiding, what is basically a corporate power grab of rewriting our laws," he said.

Claim: "Under the new health care law, the first person (a) patient has to go to is a bureaucrat. That is called a panel."
Evidence Summary: As things stand, people have free medical care for everything except prescriptions outside hospitals. A pharmacare system would fix that, and save lives, but at a cost. Other providers prefer to take steps that are more proactive to prepare their patients. At Asian Health Services, a clinic group that serves Alameda County, Calif., staff members pass out fact sheets about the proposed changes, and host workshops where anyone with questions can speak to legal experts in several Asian languages. At L.A. Care health plan, which covers more than 2 million Medicaid enrollees in Los Angeles County, hosted a public charge webinar.

Claim: "As a result of welfare reform, poverty levels went down to the lowest level ever for ... African-American children."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump said illegal immigration is hurting black and Hispanic Americans. Roland Martin: For most of U.S. history, black Americans were excluded from social welfare programs. Martin: Public budget cuts and unfettered capitalism have begun to afflict white families. He says the lack of economic opportunity has made the traditional family model more unattainable for whites. The energy of this Congress may recall, for some, the election night of 2008, Martin says. The first black man elected president, won with about 43 percent of white voters.

Claim: I'm pro-life. He's not.
Evidence Summary: Former Rep. Mia Love, R-Utah, expounded upon the need for more contraceptive availability as an example. "Why not give women the option of having their choices when it comes to health care before they have to choose between keeping a life and ending a life?" Love said at a December Politico event. But any policy shifts would also have to be undertaken on a case-by-case basis, Matthews said. The struggle in the abortion debate is, in many ways, a struggle over language.

Claim: John Mica's brother is an oil lobbyist and his daughter represents the natural gas industry.
Evidence Summary: David Bernhardt, the acting secretary of the Interior Department, is a former fossil fuel lobbyist. Democrats in Congress and advocacy groups are aghast at the administration's priorities. The Institute of Politics at Harvard Kennedy School announced on Wednesday that Mitch Landrieu would be among its visiting fellows for this year’s spring term. In a joint statement Thursday, Earthjustice, League of Conservation Voters and the Natural Resources Defense Council accused the administration of stooping to a “new level of ‘dirty’”

Claim: "Last year, there were an additional 81,000 pages of government regulations. If you stack that up, it would be a three-story building."
Evidence Summary: "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes," he says. "This could be quite debilitating to the government," he adds. "You can’t say that just days after you grant 83 new licenses.” "It has to encompass all parts of the country," says the mayor. "It’s not just New York City. It's the rest of the U.S. as well."

Claim: Attorney General Eric Holders own Justice Department precleared the voting changes in the 2011 law about early voting in Florida.
Evidence Summary: Elections supervisors across the state posted notices at their offices and websites saying they would accept the registration forms starting Tuesday. Civil rights groups have maintained the measure is self-executing, but just to be sure, they warned that they are ready to go to court if there are any delays. The state's clemency process allowed the governor and three elected Cabinet members to restore voting rights, but it was for many an arduous process and the governor could unilaterally veto any request. State attorneys have asked the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to reverse Peterson.

Claim: "The city of Nelson, Ga., is quieter than Mayberry."
Evidence Summary: "Should you really have to think about those things in Berlin," she asks, "one of the biggest and most important tech cities in Europe?" Do you want your children to drive through their town in later years and think the same that I do of my hometown? “Wow, I wonder what happened? This was such a nice place to grow up.” “It has to encompass all parts of the country,” says Allen. “But it may be the opposite .”

Claim: "Says Chris Christie fired 6,000 teachers."
Evidence Summary: Christie gives his side of the conversation in his new book, Let Me Finish. He says he bristled at Trump’s claim, then rebuked the president. “I’m a big boy who understands how the way this business works,” he said. Christie depicts the scene in withering detail, saying Bannon blamed the move on Jared Kushner, “the kid”, Trump's son-in law and adviser who is portrayed as the chief villain of the piece, driven by a decade-old family feud.

Claim: "Currently, it takes up to 25 years to obtain U.S. citizenship legally but the Senate bill would allow immigrants who came to the United States illegally to obtain citizenship in just 13 years."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump has proposed a plan to end the government shutdown. It would provide three years of protections for immigrants who were brought to the country illegally as children and those who fled certain countries. They would not be given a path to citizenship, but rather could become registered legal aliens. Trump tweeted about his proposal, saying that “amnesty is not part of” the offer. He said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has agreed to put his proposal into a bill and bring it up next week.

Claim: "Homeopathy, acupuncture and aromatherapy have been given elevated legitimacy under the Affordable Care Act."
Evidence Summary: Crowdfunding for medical bills, treatments and related expenses has become common. One third of the money raised on GoFundMe globally was directed toward self-categorized medical campaigns. The way to advance medical care for seriously ill patients like Mrs. Cunningham is not to strong-arm insurers into paying for unproven treatments. It’s to have doctors, researchers and scientists prove as quickly as possible what care is best, and then put it into practice widely once the conclusions are in.

Claim: Says Will Hurd cosponsored a bill that would militarize our border and allow 200 miles of new roads to be built in the Big Bend region -- cutting up our beloved park.
Evidence Summary: Texas Rep. Will Hurd, a Republican, is familiar with the country’s southern border. But when it comes to a border wall, Hurd isn’t fully on board. He has voted with House Democrats on legislation to reopen the government that does not include wall funding. Hurd proposes increasing security at points of entry, where the bulk of illegal drugs come into the U.S., improved technology along the border to create a "smart fence" and a "Marshall Plan for Central America"

Claim: "Bill McCollum explained his lack of action on mortgage fraud by saying, ""You can't do everything."""
Evidence Summary: Congresswoman Maxine Waters has called Wells Fargo one of the country’s “recidivist financial institutions” Waters introduced a bill last year allowing regulators to break up big banks that “repeatedly harm consumers” Wells Fargo has been hit with a number of controversies that have made them a target of Waters’ ire. The bank has also been accused of consumer abuses tied to the bank's mortgage and auto-loan businesses, which led to a record $1 billion fine from federal regulators.

Claim: "The Alternative Minimum Tax...was created by Congress in 1969 to affect 155 wealthy Americans. Because it was never indexed for inflation, those original 155 taxpayers has increased to affect about 3.5-million in 2006."
Evidence Summary: The personal income tax was imposed in 1913. The top tax rate on the very rich was 7 percent. In today’s dollars that 7% rate only hit those earning more than $11 million. Today the bottom rate is 10 percent -- higher than the punitive tax rate that was supposed to hit only the Kennedy and Rockefeller kids. New taxes are often imposed on “the rich” or “them” Then over time, they trickle down to hit all of us.

Claim: "New Jersey has lost over half of our pharmaceutical jobs to states you know, not low-tax states like in the South, but high-tax states like New York."
Evidence Summary: “A lot of this relies on the pharmaceutical companies and others, so it isn’t entirely in the gift of the government,” he says. Employers want deeper workers’ compensation reform and property tax relief. “Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few,’ he adds. ‘I’ve been very pleased with the response of the pharmaceutical industry who obviously take this incredibly seriously.’

Claim: "If the space-shuttle program is terminated, Russia and China will be the only nations ...with the capability to launch humans into space."
Evidence Summary: In 1957, the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the first human craft to orbit the Earth. Four years later, Yuri Gagarin became the first man in space. Fears about Chinese ambitions have been heightened by the changing context of the space race. In the 1960s, America was willing to throw whatever resources were necessary to achieve its cold war goals. Today, Nasa is unsure of its purpose and America less committed to funding it. The ISS is due to be retired by 2028; China may then have the only functioning orbiting station.

Claim: "Says she couldn't take stimulus money because it required ""universal building codes."""
Evidence Summary: Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) introduced legislation to block the Department of Housing and Urban Development from implementing a rule barring undocumented immigrants from subsidized housing. “This proposed HUD rule is another example of the Trump administration’s clear and relentless attacks against immigrant families across this country,” she said. Sen. Kamala Harris, a California Democrat who has declared her 2020 presidential candidacy, has challenged President Trump to use his tower in New York City as shelter for furloughed federal workers.

Claim: "Regarding the Iraq War, I was the one that said, Dont go, dont do it, youre going to destabilize the Middle East."
Evidence Summary: U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo accused Barack Obama of sowing chaos in the Middle East by failing to adequately confront Islamist militants. Pompeo: "The results of these misjudgments have been dire" The comments raised eyebrows in the United States and abroad not the least because Trump himself is being criticized for his ambiguous plan announced last month to pull US troops out of Syria. “We learned that when America retreats, chaos often follows. And, frankly, I'm no fan of Donald Trump, but his decision to withdraw the 2,000-some odd U.K. ground forces from Syria was a good decision, not a bad one," Pompeo said.

Claim: "While states used to have regulatory power over fishing, federal law now regulates down to the tenth of the inch the minimum size of fish that anglers can keep."
Evidence Summary: January marks the opening of Bering Sea fisheries. Boats need federal permits and inspections before they can leave the docks. The shutdown has put hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue at stake. The potential for shutdown-related effects on the Bering sea fisheries stems from their tight regulation by the federal government. Alaska's Fishing Industry Partial Government Shutdown Hooks Alaska's fishing industry Partial Government shutdown Hooks Alaskan Fishing Industry. The federal government tightly regulates the cod and other fisheries in the Bered Sea.

Claim: "In most Muslim countries, We cant have a church. Were not able to build synagogues. Its forbidden."
Evidence Summary: The inauguration of the Nativity of the Christ Cathedral was broadcast live on national television throughout Egypt. Standing at President el-Sissi’s side were the Coptic Orthodox pope and the grand imam of Al-Azhar University. Moments before the opening of the cathedral, the imam told the entire nation of Egypt on live television that Islamic law actually teaches that Christian and Jewish houses of worship should be given the same treatment as mosques. In the past 150 years only 2,500 churches were ever legally authorized to operate by the Egyptian government. Yet in the past 18 months alone, more than 500 new churches have been granted permits to operate.

Claim: "When housing and transportation costs are combined, Atlantas cost of living -- typically perceived as relatively low -- ranks as 7th worst out of 51 metros nationally."
Evidence Summary: 24/7 Wall St. created a weighted index of over two dozen measures to identify the best city to live in each state. Affordability, economy, quality of life, and community were all weighted. These cities tend to have much in common beyond the index components upon which they were ranked. For one, these communities are often within commuting distance of a major metropolitan area. These are the most expensive zip codes in the US this year and the best places to retire in every state.

Claim: "Over the last 10 years, Georgias public health has declined."
Evidence Summary: "There's a tide in the affairs of men with issues and--and the tide is--is coming in on this issue now," he says. Wofford: "Practices will try many ways to address this problem, but ultimately patients do need to play their part" "Growth is going to come to an end, either suddenly or in a controlled way," he adds. "And a healthy community must have housing that is within the economic reach of every part of the community"

Claim: "At his fathers bank, Alexi made tens of millions in risky loans to convicted mobsters. Then, the bank collapsed."
Evidence Summary: Tim Leissner, a former top investment banker, has been portrayed as a master con man. The sordid list represents the crux of a well-orchestrated campaign by Goldman Sachs to discredit one of its former partners. The scorched-earth tactics reflect just how worried Goldman is about the criminal investigations into its role in the theft of at least $2.7 billion from the 1Malaysia Development Berhad, or 1MDB, sovereign wealth fund. "He was the superstar everyone wanted to be," one former law enforcement official said.

Claim: "Over the past 35 years, Florida families have paid into the (National Flood Insurance Program) over $16 billion, four times more than the amount they have received in claim reimbursements."
Evidence Summary: Fema’s flood maps, an important risk-assessment tool, are woefully inadequate and have come under criticism for years. Of the 15 largest metros in the United States, only Houston and Miami have higher rates of flood-insurance adoption. A separate study by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources recorded $2.3 billion in damage between 2007 and 2014, with more than 85 percent of payouts occurring in the Chicago metro area. The National Flood Insurance Program, on which more than 5 million residents and businesses rely, has been deep in debt for years, despite regular bailouts.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama said when we got bin Laden, terrorism problem solved."
Evidence Summary: It is untrue that Obama claimed radical Islamic terrorism does not stem from ideology. The word ideology appears nowhere in that earlier speech. What he said was that the 9/11 terrorists did not represent the full face of Islam. In Pompeo's view, Obama's speech heralded an era of timidity, wishful thinking, and what he called "willful blindness" And he blamed the Obama administration's policies for allowing violence and extremism to flourish, citing ISIS, Syria's killing of its own citizens, Iran's moves to expand its influence.

Claim: "More than a quarter of mortgage borrowers are underwater, and 11 percent of all homes are vacant."
Evidence Summary: Inventories of unsold houses are growing significantly in many local markets. Inventories grew by 4.6 percent in December, the third consecutive month of increases. In the past year, the availability of homes that a middle-class family could buy has declined in 86 percent of the largest metro areas. The crisis we suffer from is largely the result of acute maldistribution within an economic structure which encourages maximum consumption of a scarce resource by those with the means to command the market.

Claim: "Paul Ryans budget keeps the Obamacare taxes and spending cuts that paid for Obamacare, but then cuts all of the benefits."
Evidence Summary: White House’s Office of Management and Budget is required to make across-the-board cuts to other programs if any new deficit-increasing legislation is enacted. Hammill argued that if Congress were to pass a new entitlement program like those being championed by liberals, OMB director Mick Mulvaney could take the scissors to other federal programs Democrats support. Khanna had tweeted his opposition to the measure earlier: “I will be voting NO on the Rules package with #PayGo.”

Claim: "Agriculture contributes $71 billion to Georgias economy annually, making it the states largest industry."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. government has suspended payments to farmers for lost markets in China. The president of the National Farmers Union will visit New Orleans on Monday. "We need massive cooperation to really address the situation that we are in currently," he says. "This is hitting the main artery of Kenyan export earnings: the agriculture industry," says the union's president, Roger Johnson. "Many growing businesses like ours are continuing to invest in the future regardless," he adds. 'We need a new type of food production,' says Johnson, "and it's going to take time to get there'

Claim: "Says Lloyd Doggett voted for the health care, stimulus and cap-and-trade bills."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Steny HOYER: "What we voted for last Thursday were Republican bills" Rep. Marc Thiessen: "It’s already reached another historic milestone, which is the stupidest government in American history" Sen. Susan Collins: "I'll vote to disapprove Treasury's easing of sanctions on Russian businesses involving oligarch & Putin ally Oleg Deripaska" "These crocodile tears that the senator from Texas is crying for first responders are hard for me," Sen. Michael Bennet said.

Claim: "Twenty four states have voter ID or comparable restrictions; before Barack Obama was elected, it was two."
Evidence Summary: The judge also struck down a law passed during the lame duck session that requires a 2-year expiration date on student IDs used for identification at the polls. In 2012, the Pew Research Center found that more than 3 million people were registered to vote in more than one state. The law would prevent states from aggressively purging the voter rolls by removing people if they don't vote and don't respond to a single mailer from the state. “Proponents of the change argue that this practice removes eligible voters from the rolls,” the judge said.

Claim: President Obamas refusal to grant permits for offshore drilling is one reason gasoline prices are soaring.
Evidence Summary: Judge Richard Gergel of the U.S. District Court in South Carolina issued the decision in response to a motion filed by a range of conservation and business groups. The Justice Department had sought a delay in the court proceedings arguing that it did not have the resources it needed to work on the case during the shutdown. The Interior Department has recalled employees, including those at the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM), to continue working on permitting for onshore and offshore oil and gas drilling and testing.

Claim: "The merger of Georgia State University and Georgia Perimeter College will make GSU one of the largest universities in the nation, with more than 54,000 students."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s six-year graduation rate in 2018 was 55 percent, up from 48 percent in 2011. The university has monitored its 52,000 students using 800 different academic risk factors. The goal is to catch students before they reach a crisis point and provide the advising and instructional help to get them through it. Nearly 60 percent of Georgia State's students are eligible for Pell Grants, meaning many come from households making $40,000 or less.. Microsoft founder Bill Gates has visited the campus to see the data in action, as have Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and John B. King Jr.

Claim: "In Florida, we have the lowest in-state tuition of any state."
Evidence Summary: Two dozen private institutions have cut tuition since 2016. St. John's College is cutting tuition to $35,000 in the next school year from $52,734. The number of Illinois residents enrolled outside the state as freshmen has increased by 73 percent since 2000. The majority of Illinois’ public universities have seen their enrollment shrink."When you see a college give out sizable grants to 90 percent or more of its students, it does beg the question, why not charge less?" said Mark Kantrowitz.

Claim: "In Japan, permanent residency is not given to Muslims, the propagation of Islam is banned, one cannot import a Koran published in the Arabic language, and Muslims cannot even rent a house."
Evidence Summary: Saudi Arabia asked Netflix to block Saudi users from viewing an episode of "Patriot Act with Hasan Minhaj" The Financial Times confirmed that Netflix had complied, setting off international condemnation. A Japanese same-sex couple plan to stage wedding photos in every country around the world where gay marriage is legal in a push to increase understanding of LGBT+ communities at home. A former governor of the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, was released from prison after serving nearly two years for blasphemy against Islam. The off-the-cuff comment, which was later edited online, incensed hard-line Muslim groups.

Claim: "Despite touting the economic stimulus as a great triumph, ""The very same report, however, notes that unemployment will average 10 percent for the rest of the year."""
Evidence Summary: U.S. employers dramatically stepped up their hiring in December, adding 312,000 jobs in an encouraging display of strength for an economy in the midst of a trade war. The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon.

Claim: "You are three times more likely to be able to get a mortgage if youre a white applicant than if youre black or Hispanic, even if you have the same credentials."
Evidence Summary: The destruction of the value of black housing ten years ago has set the stage for revamped exploitative practices. Disproportionately elevated rates of poverty, few financially meaningful assets, and rock-bottom wealth accumulation have combined with racist assumptions to marginalize prospective black property owners. In Philadelphia, for instance, African Americans are almost three times more likely to be rejected for home loans than white people. Until we remove profitability from the equation and treat the right to safe and sound housing as a human and civil right, residential segregation will continue to thrive.

Claim: "For six years, I served our community as a conservative state legislator. In every one of those years, I helped balance the state's budget."
Evidence Summary: "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he said. "Think of all the dedicated public servants I have worked with and, not to get partisan, think of all of the competitors and political personalities who have come and gone. We outlasted most of them and made genuine friends with many along the way," he added. "Despite the partisan division and conflict in Washington that threatens progress, I continue to believe we can achieve results"

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama gives students the right to repay (federal) loans as a clear, fixed, low percentage of their income for up to 20 years."
Evidence Summary: Washington already owns or guarantees $1.4 trillion in student loan debt to nearly 43 million borrowers. The federal government, wittingly or not, has helped make universities' tuition hikes possible by subsidizing student debt. Borrowers today have more than 50 options: If they wish to enroll in income-driven repayment plans, for instance, they have to complete lengthy applications on their own and loan servicers can't assist them. Schools should have some skin in the game, since they receive the proceeds of taxpayer-subsidized loans.

Claim: "Since the beginning of the economic downturn in FY 2008, the state workforce has been reduced by 12.4 percent as part of overall cost savings measures to balance the budget to reduce revenues."
Evidence Summary: Jobless claims fell 3,000 to a seasonally adjusted 213,000 in the week ended Jan. 12. This is near a 49-year low. Quits dropped 3.2 percent in November to 3.4 million. Overall hiring slid to 5.7 million from 5.9 million, slightly disappointing to some economists.. Middlesbrough Council said it needed to find another £12m in savings on top of £10m in cuts already approved. The council warned it will need to cut further jobs, after axing 900 people since 2010.

Claim: "During the 2005 fight over Social Security, there were noisy demonstrations but they were outside the events, and opponents were not disruptive crowds booed lines they didnt like, but that was about it."
Evidence Summary: Third-annual march expected in Washington, but experts say they expect a fraction of that number. Parallel marches took place in dozens of cities around the country. In Los Angeles, a few hundred demonstrators gathered in Pershing Square downtown and marched to Grand Park. In San Francisco, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was in the march and video on Twitter showed people clapping and cheering as she passed. "Democracy is not a spectator sport and I came out to continue to stand for that proposition," said Ellen Klugman.

Claim: "There are 7,000 kids in New Hampshire who have health care because I helped to create the Children's Health Insurance Program."
Evidence Summary: Before CHIP was enacted, the number of uninsured children in America was around 10 million. “This is an area the country has made enormous progress on, and it’s something we should all feel proud of — and Senator Hatch should too,” said Joan Alker, executive director of Georgetown University's Center for Children and Families. Hatch's influence on American health care partly came from the sheer number of bills he sponsored — more than any other living lawmaker — and because he was chairman of several powerful Senate committees.

Claim: "Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp is a ""career politician."""
Evidence Summary: Governors are being sworn in several states Monday, after the 2018 midterm elections. The former Georgia secretary of state rose from underdog status to clinch a Republican primary runoff with tough talk on immigration and a nod from President Trump. Kansas' new Democratic governor is expected to take office promising a bipartisan administration even as she and her supporters celebrate a sharp break with her conservative Republican predecessors. “I’m going to make a decision by the end of March. It’s going to be grounded in, ‘Am I the right person? Is it the right job, and is now the right time?'”

Claim: "A new Rasmussen poll shows people ""oppose (Sotomayor's) confirmation. Only 37 percent support it."""
Evidence Summary: All but one Republican voted to confirm Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, despite him wailing through his confirmation hearing about revenge-minded Democrats besmirching him. In the first two years of Trump’s presidency, amid dozens of judicial confirmation votes, there have been only two cases of GOP senators not supporting one of the president's court picks on the Senate floor. A whopping 75 percent of Americans -- including 56 percent of self-described Democrats -- also opposed taxpayer funding of abortion overseas. Just 30 percent of respondents favored a Supreme Court ruling allowing unrestricted abortion.

Claim: "We had 6,000 oil and gas spills in 2012 with more oil and gas spreading in the United States than the entire Exxon Valdez spill."
Evidence Summary: By 2050, the country’s newly tapped reserves are projected to spew 120 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. Nearly 90 percent of new U.S. oil and gas drilling through 2050 is expected to depend on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. Upward of 60 percent of the emissions would come from two major fracking hot spots: the Permian Basin, a massive field stretching from Texas to New Mexico; and the Appalachian Basin. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

Claim: "Sen. McCain would occupy Iraq indefinitely, against their wishes."
Evidence Summary: Sen. McCain: President Obama ended the operations in Iraq against sound military advice. Sen. McCain would send back nominations for people who were “totally unqualified” (in his words) or unresponsive to the Senate. He skewered nominees who would not give him straight answers and demanded accountability on behalf of his colleagues. He might be no one who understood how to wield the immense power of the Senate’s advise-and-consent role better than Sen. John McCain.

Claim: "Says scientists predict sometime in the future, an event that will kill somewhere between 80 and 90 million people."
Evidence Summary: In 2018 a U.N. report warned that we are running out of time to avoid the catastrophic effects of climate change. In 2014, the World Health Organization estimated that climate change would lead to about 250,000 additional deaths each year between 2030 and 2050. But the new review, published Jan. 17 in The New England Journal of Medicine, said this is a "conservative estimate" That's because it fails to take into account other climate-related factors that could affect death rates, study co-author Dr. Andrew Haines said.

Claim: "Since 2008, U.S. crude oil output has increased by over 80 percent, an increase of over 4 million barrels a day. That is the fastest increase in U.S. history."
Evidence Summary: In the United States, energy firms cut 21 oil rigs in the week to Jan. 18, taking the total count down to 852, the lowest since May 2018. It was biggest decline since February 2016, as drillers reacted to the 40 percent plunge in U.S. crude prices late last year. With the rig count stalling, last year’s growth rate is unlikely to be repeated in 2019, although most analysts expect annual production to average well over 12 million bpd.

Claim: "On taxes, President Barack Obama wants to raise the top rate to 44.8 percent."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) suggested funding her proposed “Green New Deal’ by the marginal tax rate of 70 percent on those making $10 million or more. Walker failed on both counts Tuesday when he tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize the congresswoman’s proposal. The majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down.

Claim: "Since the Fed was created in 1913, the U.S. Dollar has lost 98% of its purchasing power."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. dollar fell broadly against both developed- and emerging-market currencies Wednesday after two Federal Reserve officials suggested there is little need for policy makers to raise interest rates in the near term. The WSJ Dollar Index, which measures the US currency against a basket of 16 others, was recently down 0.3% at 89.21. The gauge is off more than 1% in the past three months. The dollar fell Monday, after dovish comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell last week bolstered the case for a slower pace of interest-rate increases this year.

Claim: "Says Milwaukee blacks have 55 percent male unemployment, 60 percent truancy, a 50 percent graduation rate, the worst reading scores and lead in infant mortality."
Evidence Summary: This means the furlough will not only disproportionately affect Black families, but it will also be concentrated in Black communities. Racial segregation, itself the consequence of racist policies and practices, will only compound the negative effects Black Americans will likely experience. In California, black fifth-graders are five times more likely than whites to be chronically truant. During the Great Recession, in the predominantly African-American Prince George’s County, in Maryland, teachers and parents lamented that their schools were in disrepair.

Claim: "The health care law was a 2,733-page bill! . . . No amendments!"
Evidence Summary: Reed O’Connor knows that most legal analysts thought his decision demolishing the entire Affordable Care Act was dangerously, outrageously, brazenly wrong. He’s here to tell them that he stands by it anyway. On Sunday, a Texas federal judge, put on hold his earlier ruling stating that Congress rendered the ACA unconstitutional by zeroing out the individual mandate in 2017. The stay would normally have been a formality, but O'Connor devoted 30 pages (and 78 footnotes) to a gratuitous reiteration of his first decision.

Claim: "The Obama administration estimates the number of children at the border is going to increase to 150,000 to 200,000 next year."
Evidence Summary: Last month, 20,000 migrant children were illegally brought into the United States – a dramatic increase. President Trump is expected to use Tuesday evening’s Oval Office address to tout statistics showing a dramatic influx of families, drugs and criminals crossing the U.S.-Mexico border. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, in briefings with lawmakers, has cited administration figures showing 161,000 family units crossed the border in fiscal 2018, a stunning 50 percent increase from the year before. One in three women are sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico.

Claim: "Ninety percent of the people who work in this country work for companies under 100 people, maybe even less than that."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "And I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments" "Many growing businesses like ours are continuing to invest in the future regardless," he adds. "The government really needs to get together and work this out.” "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I”m doing."

Claim: "Thirty-four percent of Hispanics don't have any health care at all, don't have any health insurance."
Evidence Summary: Doctors and clinics are torn between informing patients about the potential risks and unnecessarily scaring them into dropping their coverage or avoiding care. “We are walking a fine line,” said Tara McCollum Plese, chief external affairs officer at the Arizona Alliance for Community Health Centers, which represents 176 clinics. At Asian Health Services, a clinic group that serves Alameda County, Calif., staff members pass out fact sheets about the proposed changes and host workshops where patients can speak to legal experts in several Asian languages.

Claim: "The Obama administrations cap-and-trade plan would create a $1,761 yearly energy tax."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s, D-N.Y., “Green New Deal’ would eliminate all fossil fuels by 2030, including from agriculture, manufacturing, transportation, and the entire electric grid. Ending fossil-fuel industry would potentially destroy millions of jobs and require an unprecedented investment in expensive and unreliable renewable energy sources like wind and solar power generation. Even worse, requiring huge sectors of the economy to rely on these renewables would increase the cost of all goods and services and drive countless businesses out of the country.

Claim: Women of childbearing age spend 68 percent more in out-of-pocket health care costs than men.
Evidence Summary: Full-time childcare in a daycare center for a child between birth and 4 years old costs more, on average, than in-state college tuition. A family earning the average median income in the U.S. spends about one-fifth of their household income on childcare for one child. Women age 63 and up are projected to spend 30 percent more on health care in retirement than men. Women may be more likely to suffer through chronic illnesses and may be less likely to benefit from a spouse who serves as a caretaker.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clintons plan would bring in 620,000 refugees in her first term, alone, with no effective way to screen or vet them. Her plan would cost $400 billion in terms of lifetime welfare and entitlement costs."
Evidence Summary: Right-wing commentator Ann Coulter lashed out at President Donald Trump's offer to extend protections for the so-called immigrant Dreamers in exchange for $5.7 billion for his southern border wall. Coulter mocked the plan’s “amnesty,” noting sarcastically that maybe Trump could finally get an entire border wall if “we grant citizenship to a BILLION foreigners” The In Trump We Trust author also accused Trump of turning into his GOP presidential candidate rival Jeb Bush, who is more supportive of immigrants.

Claim: "When these [undocumented] students graduate from college, theyre still illegal aliens. They cannot get a job."
Evidence Summary: DACA recipients, commonly called "Dreamers," are protected from deportation because they were brought into the country illegally at a young age. "Is this what America is about? Turning the American Dream into the American Nightmare for young people brought here when they were children, through no fault of their own?" Trump wrote on Sunday, quoting the former president in 2005. "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected, undocumented, unchecked...” Barrack Obama, 2005.

Claim: "Research performed by economists has shown no consistent, positive impact on jobs, income or tax revenues arising from stadiums or sports franchises."
Evidence Summary: Ald. Brian Hopkins, 2nd, said he was reacting to community blowback about the stadium and entertainment district. Residents of Lincoln Park and Bucktown wanted neither. A 20,000-seat stadium would have been built for a minor league soccer team owned by Cubs Chairman Tom Ricketts. And the entertainment district would have endangered the viability of iconic music club mainstays like Schubas and the Hideout. Some members of Illinois’ congressional delegation say they’ll donate their pay as an act of solidarity with federal workers.

Claim: "My ""border security efforts have led to a 60 percent decrease in border crime."""
Evidence Summary: Yuma County Sheriff Leon Wilmot says the Secure Fence Act had a tremendous impact in Yuma County. Wilmot was a deputy during that time but saw the impact firsthand. The 91 percent reduction in crime Wilmot cites is a Sheriffs office number. According to Wilmot, service calls and arrests dropped dramatically between 2005-2009 leading to the conclusion that added fencing along with more manpower had a major impact on local crime. Since 2005, total illegal alien apprehensions dropped from 138,438 to 12,847 in 2017. It was as low 5,833 in 2011.

Claim: "Says when I voted against [an increase in the minimum wage], it was in the 80s."
Evidence Summary: In 1966, the federal minimum wage was $1.25/hour. At 40 hours a week, 50 weeks a year, the annual wage would equal $2,500, which is below the U.S. Census Bureau’s 1966 poverty level for a family of three. Walker: “Imagine if you did chores for your grandma and she gave you $10. When you got home, your parents took $7 from you.” Ocasio-Cortez: "Even 5th graders get it"

Claim: "Lyme disease is one of the fastest growing infectious diseases in the United States, and Rhode Island has the second-highest incidence of this disease in the country."
Evidence Summary: In 2018, New York and New Jersey accounted for more than half the measles cases in the country. New York State was facing its most severe outbreak of the disease in decades, with 177 cases confirmed by Tuesday. Health officials in one county in Washington have declared a public health emergency because of an outbreak of measles that has infected 22 people so far. The outbreaks are sparked by travelers who bring the virus back from other countries, as the virus finds fuel in pockets of unvaccinated people, the CDC says.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama initially said the national health-care mandate isnt a tax, but his administration now says it is a tax."
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration announced proposed rule changes that would lead to a modest premium increase next year under the Affordable Care Act. The roughly 1 percent increase could feed into the Democratic argument that the Trump administration is trying to "sabotage" coverage for millions. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. President Trump, who once predicted "Obamacare" would "implode" or "explode," took credit for calm insurance markets. The case springs from Congress’ decision to ax the penalty for Americans who fail to purchase health insurance.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton advocates ""a freeze on foreclosures. Barack Obama said no."""
Evidence Summary: The president accused Pelosi of behaving "irrationally’ for turning down his offer. “Nancy Pelosi has behaved so irrationally & has gone so far to the left that she has now officially become a Radical Democrat. She is so petrified of the ‘lefties’ in her party that she’s lost control,” he tweeted. ‘They don’t see crime & drugs, they only see 2020 - which they are not going to win,’ he added.

Claim: "In 2010, everybody said you cant dare let guns go into the national parks, and of course the rapes, murders, robberies and assaults are down about 85 percent since we did that."
Evidence Summary: The Parkland shooting has become a catalyst for the national debate on gun control. Stoneman Douglas students became youth activists for new gun legislation. Sheriff Israel himself, who has been twice elected in a heavily Democratic county, clashed head-on with the powerful National Rifle Association. Some exchanges on Facebook were political and referenced that Gov. J.B. Pritzker recently signed a law that will require state licensing of gun dealers. The government cheerfully calls these venues “gun-free zones.” They should be called killing zones.

Claim: "Barack Obama said ""he's going to attack Pakistan and embrace (Iranian President Mahmoud) Ahmadinejad."""
Evidence Summary: Mohammad Javad Zarif posted the titles of two separate articles by John Bolton from 2009 and 2019, both calling for strikes on Iran. “Rather than remain trapped in the past, I have made it clear to Iran’s leaders and people that my country is prepared to move forward,” he said. Khalilzad is currently on a visit to Islamabad and has met with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan and the country's powerful army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa to discuss peace in Afghanistan.

Claim: "Says, Since 1994 when VAWA was first passed, incidents of domestic violence have dropped more than 50 percent."
Evidence Summary: The Violence Against Women Act, or VAWA, provides protections for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. The act also provides funding for social service agencies and programs that support survivors of such violence, which must be renewed annually. After Congress failed to pass a budget and parts of the federal government shut down, many of the act’s funding sources remain on hold. Advocates say they worry about funding being in flux every year for programs that serve as a safety net for victims — and the message that sends.

Claim: "Under Cuccinellis tax cut plan, school divisions across Virginia could be forced to fire over 8,000 teachers."
Evidence Summary: Last year, educators across the nation reached their breaking point, finally squeezed too tight by rising living costs, crumbling schoolhouses, and an encroaching school privatization campaign. Today, 29 states have lower education funding than they did in 2008, and nationwide, education funding is still about $450 lower per student than it was a decade ago. Above all, the teacher revolt expresses a rejection of the austerity and privatization agenda pushed by both Democrats and Republicans, particularly since the Great Recession. The fight continues: which states will teachers strike in next?

Claim: "Rhode Island has invested less in tourism, economic development and economic development personnel than four nearby states."
Evidence Summary: Ned Lamont pledged in his first official address to state lawmakers Wednesday to invest more in the state’s urban centers, boost spending on education and improve an aging transportation system. Just outside Jefords’ office, shuttered storefronts and near empty stores lay empty as the evidence of the flagging economy in Jesup. “My kids can’t afford the lifestyle we gave them without leaving town,” says Ed Jeffords, whose son plans to move to Orlando.

Claim: "Says a 9-year-old girl was recently raped in Austin, Texas, by a guy previously caught four times and released."
Evidence Summary: Four boys, all between the ages of 12 and 14, were arrested Wednesday in connection with the rape of a teenage girl in Delaware last month. The girl was heading home on the school bus when a schoolmate stole her phone and then forced her into a house where she was repeatedly raped by the four boys, according to court reports. After the attack, two of the boys pointed a kitchen knife at the girl and threatened to shoot her if she told anyone, the paper reported. Her story compels us to think about the devastating consequences of commercialized sexual abuse. It's one that should lead Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam to grant clemency for Brown before he leaves office in January.

Claim: "In a period of roughly 72 hours, a small group of angry black students managed to force the resignation of the two highest ranking officials at that school."
Evidence Summary: "I will send a team to do an investigation into all schools... to deal with issues of racism in totality," Lehari said. The chairman of the school's governing body, Jozeph du Plessis, said the teacher thought she was helping the students feel at ease on their first day of school. The six-second video snippet was recorded about two and half years ago, but it resurfaced this month. On Friday, hundreds of Poly Prep students, dressed in black, walked out of an assembly, filtered into the hallways.

Claim: "Over the last 30 years, extreme poverty has been cut in half."
Evidence Summary: The World Inequality Report 2018 – co-authored by Piketty – showed that between 1980 and 2016 the poorest 50% of humanity only captured 12 cents in every dollar of global income growth. By contrast, the top 1% captured 27 cents of every dollar. Oxfam said that in addition to tackling inequality at home, developed nations currently failing to meet their overseas aid commitments could raise the missing billions needed to tackle extreme poverty in the poorest countries. China’s rapid growth over the past four decades has been responsible for much of the decline in extreme poverty.

Claim: "In 2009, his first year as mayor, Julin Castro received a seven-figure referral fee that smells like a dirty financial gift from notorious personal injury lawyer Mikal Watts, a major Obama donor."
Evidence Summary: Castro, 44, was the mayor of San Antonio for five years before serving in the Obama administration for less than three. San Antonio's mayorship was a part-time position paying only $3,000 a year and roughly equivalent to a city councilmember role when Castro held the job. The city's executive leadership was almost entirely conducted by a separate official who acted as city manager -- an inconvenient fact for Castro that was noted not only by the GOP this week, but also by left-leaning Vox.com in 2016.

Claim: "House Republican plan would increase costs for Oregon seniors by $6,000 with health care vouchers instead of Medicare"
Evidence Summary: Some polls show support for Medicare-for-all. But when those polled are informed of the doubling of taxes required to fund such a scheme, support collapses. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. But respondents viewed it very favorably if it would eliminate all health insurance premiums and reduce out-of-pocket health care costs for most Americans. The survey found majority support for more incremental moves to a nationalized system.

Claim: "Our own National Security Agency says that (Iran's) nuclear ambitions are advancing, and at the same time ... we are slashing our own nuclear arsenal."
Evidence Summary: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned Iran against launching three spacecraft. He described them as a pretext for testing missile technology that is necessary to carry a warhead. The Pentagon and the intelligence agencies disagreed with Mr. Pompeo’s interpretation of the threat, an official said. Iran has used these modest space missions, mostly to deploy satellites, since 2005, he said. The stark warning on Thursday was immediately rejected by Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif of Iran, who shot back in a tweet.

Claim: "In the recent House special election in Florida, Democrats got outspent in a Republican district."
Evidence Summary: George Will: Florida has become a more reliably red political bastion. Will: Republicans ran more ads focused on immigration than taxes. He says Democrats have to “own” districts like hers, “not rent them.” Will: The successful courting of up-for-grabs Hispanics, the surge of transplanted senior voters, solidifying support in conservative North Florida all illustrate why this prized battleground state is tilting to the right. The suburbs delivered for Dems in 2018. Will asks: Will the party return the favor?

Claim: "When mentioning Villanovas buzzer-beating win in the national championships, Hillary Clinton said: I love those come-from-behind victories."
Evidence Summary: Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton swiped at critics and pundits who have been scrutinizing the "likability" of certain female politicians. Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, made her comments during an appearance in Manhattan alongside New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. “I know many of you and can attest how smart, determined, effective, and, dare I say, likable you all are,” Clinton said during her speech at Barnard College. Clinton’s comments come amid a slew of news stories and opinion pieces questioning how Sen. Elizabeth Warren can avoid falling into the same trap that befell Clinton during her presidential bids.

Claim: "By 2014, there will be one administrator for every teacher on college campuses in the United States."
Evidence Summary: “Smaller class sizes, more support staff like librarians, counselors, nurses – staff we used to have at school all day, every day, and now get maybe one or two days a week if we’re lucky,” Weingarten said. “Profit isn’t everything,’ she said, “There are more important things out there, like educating our kids.” “The honeymoon is over. We need to be seeing results from the hiring that we already have," Hanna said.

Claim: "Says as we sit right now, Medicare, if we do nothing, will be gone in eight years, if we do nothing to it."
Evidence Summary: ‘This is the new theme, for two years until the Wall is finished (under construction now), of the Republican Party. Use it and pray!’ Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. The slogan would seemingly replace the old, ‘BUILD THAT WALL’ that so many Trump supporters have chanted at rallies across the country since he announced his intention to run for president in 2015. ‘Americans like the idea of ‘Medicare-for-all,’ but support flips to disapproval if it would result in higher taxes or longer waits for care.’

Claim: "Says Howard Zinn, an anti-American Marxist, wrote the most popular textbook thats taught in our high schools in America."
Evidence Summary: Fox News' Tucker Carlson made an anti-capitalist argument that, in part, might fit naturally into the socialist magazine Jacobin. In the wake of this speech, many right-wing figures broke with pro-market orthodoxy in ways that have long been unthinkable. Professor Stephen Hicks, who wrote a book called “Explaining Postmodernism” on the connection between old-line Marxism and the newer “postmodern” leftism, says there are two major links in thought. “The academy is, in some sub-sectors, not very healthy right now,” he said.

Claim: "In the Wisconsin health insurance exchange, the Society of Actuaries points out that therell be, according to them, an 82 percent increase in individual premiums over the next couple years under Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: The administration said the proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. The tide has shifted, however, and the gains seen during the early years of Obamacare are being reversed. The administration recently released an excellent new report highlighting needed reforms for Congress and states.. The overriding concern for American families is rising health- care costs. The Trump administration can build on these accomplishments by implementing additional policies that will give Americans more ways to get quality, affordable care.

Claim: "Given how expansive our program already was, expanding Medicaid in New Jersey due to Obamacare was a relatively small expansion."
Evidence Summary: California, New York and Washington are among the states that embraced the Affordable Care Act. The uninsured rates in all three states are below the national average of 10 percent. Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state’s voters. The administration wants to let states use waivers to reshape their Medicaid programs, but the effort could face legal challenges in the courts. The newfound popularity of Medicaid, which has grown to cover about one in five Americans, is complicating the push.

Claim: "The reason why Cubans dont have access to 21st century telecommunications like smart phones, like access to the Internet is because it is illegal in Cuba."
Evidence Summary: Digital plaza offers a more holistic view of Cuba, one from a pluralistic perspective. Access to 3G mobile technology has allowed activists to call for a no vote in the referendum on the new Constitution. But in Parliament, in public places and at the centers of power, only one side of the argument can still be heard. There has been a disappointment by individuals of Cuban descent who reside in Florida with the abject lack of Obama Administration initiatives permitted to be implemented by the government of the Republic of Cuba.

Claim: "Since 2010, America has put more people back to work than Europe, Japan, and all advanced economies combined."
Evidence Summary: Gross domestic product increased 3.4 percent in the third quarter of 2018, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Hassett said he is not concerned about the potential economic impact because, he predicted, the economy would bounce back once the government reopens. The recovery, he told CNN, would be "humongous" Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Obama, who was elected in the teeth of the worst recession in living memory, added 10m jobs.

Claim: "Says there are ample means to tell when someone is a Christian in the Middle East ... by name, by where theyre born, their birth certificates."
Evidence Summary: As China experienced an explosion in the number of religious believers, the government has grown wary of Christianity and Islam in particular, with their overseas links. In Xinjiang, a surveillance and internment system has been built for Muslim minorities, notably the Uighurs. Sensing what’s coming and how it could challenge their regime's critical coziness with Western patrons, top Saudis are already trying to maintain their comfortable status quo. The persecution of Christians has continued during the presidency of the so-called moderate Hassan Rouhani.

Claim: "In 2006, I went out and authored a letter with 24 other senators asking for major reform of Freddie and Fannie, warning of a meltdown and a bubble in the housing market."
Evidence Summary: While students were keen to blog on presidential aspirants' policy proposals during the 2008 campaign cycle, Warren largely steered clear of primary politics. Still, Warren did not endorse anyone during the Democratic primary, and was lobbying candidates behind the scenes to create what would become the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. In 2006, Warren wrote that Biden's 2005 vote in favor of the bankruptcy bill that spurred her foray into blogging made him part of "a bi-partisan coalition to prefer powerful corporation [sic] over hard-working families"

Claim: "Says Marcy Kaptur has attacked his military service and training in the Air Force, showing disrespect for veterans."
Evidence Summary: Phillips also faced racial discrimination in 2015 when he said Eastern Michigan University students were dressed up in feathers with their faces painted, mocking the elder leader. New Mexico Congresswoman Deb Haaland, who is Native American, condemned the students who mocked Phillips. “This Veteran put his life on the line for our country. The students’ display of blatant hate, disrespect, and intolerance is a signal of how common decency has decayed under this administration. Heartbreaking.” she wrote on Twitter.

Claim: "Emails released to the public show Hillary Clinton discussed the location of Ambassador Stevens, who of course was murdered, in Libya."
Evidence Summary: Rice and Rhodes must answer written questions about the State Department's response to the deadly 2012 terror attack in Benghazi, Libya. Four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens, were killed in the Sept. 11, 2012 attack. Judicial Watch is investigating whether Hillary Clinton sought to deliberately evade public record laws by using a private email server while secretary of state. Rice initially claimed on several talk shows that the attack on the U.s. Consulate in Benghazi was triggered by protests over an anti-Islam video.

Claim: "The city building code violations on my properties only involve exterior issues; within the households, its fine."
Evidence Summary: Gary agreed with the need to support current village homeowners, and said the village needs to increase transparency when it deals with companies looking to build large developments in Oak Park. “The mechanism of trying to extract whatever few dollars you can from developers isn’t working for the developer, the village or the taxpayers,” he said. "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes," he added. "And a healthy community must have housing that is within the economic reach of every part of the community"

Claim: "People can use food stamps for anything, including to go to Hawaii, and even millionaires can qualify."
Evidence Summary: Despite the prospect of no pay, Mechelle is still required to work. The late 20th century expansion of the food stamp program helped eradicate starvation in the U.S. "To a lot of us, SNAP is all we know," said Janelle Rosado, 41. "It's scary, I don't know how long we'll last," she said. "Some people rely on welfare completely for their income," says Jazz Timothy, a food bank worker in Washington, D.C.

Claim: "You can hire lots of bureaucrats. Thats what the presidents done. Hes added 135,000 people to the government workforce."
Evidence Summary: "Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. I'm just hoping this government opens up," she said. "This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for" "I'm obsessed to know how the system works," she added. "I get where they’re coming from. But my role in government is to manage a lot of competing interests" "We need a federal law. We need to get together and work this out.”

Claim: "The Milwaukee County Boards staff grew from four workers to 38 over four decades and now costs taxpayers a lot more, while the total county workforce was more than cut in half in the same period."
Evidence Summary: Some school leaders have complained about increased costs they've been forced to cover. State fiscal analysts project tax revenues will grow by about 2.5 percent each year for the new two-year budget starting in July. The state's troubled Department of Child Services is seeking about two-thirds of that money to keep paying for hundreds of new child welfare caseworkers added over the last few years. The early reviews of Calumet Park’s newly privatized department have been “great,” according to Denson.

Claim: Says President Barack Obama has launched twice as many strikes (on)countries that are predominantly Muslim than President George W. Bush.
Evidence Summary: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered his remarks in Cairo, where Obama famously spoke in 2009 and promised a new beginning with Muslim and Arab countries. Pompeo said that under Obama, the U.S. abandoned its allies and was “timid” about asserting itself. He also criticized Obama-era policy for “wishful thinking [that] led us to look the other way” as Hezbollah built up its weaponry in Lebanon, and for doing nothing as Syrian President Assad gassed his own people.

Claim: Nine hundred people have been fired since I became secretary (of Veterans Affairs). Weve got 60 people that we fired who have manipulated wait times.
Evidence Summary: In November, CPS said nearly 130 of its employees had been terminated, recommended for dismissal or simply resigned. Nearly one-third of the civilian federal workforce has served in the military, although the percentage varies greatly from agency to agency. Some 800,000 federal workers have gone without pay since Dec. 22. The shutdown has exposed a deepening rift between the head of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the union representing many of the VA’s employees. The union has been quick to point out during the shutdown that the federal government employs a disproportionate number of veterans.

Claim: "In Rhode Island, Nearly 9 percent of covered employees go out on short term disability every year, with an average outage from work of almost 12 weeks each."
Evidence Summary: For most, their last paycheck was Dec. 28. With two in five Americans unable to afford a $400 emergency, that empty pay period hurts. An estimated 10,000 a day are calling it quits. It’s just that the group is so large that enough are staying in, or returning to, the workforce to provide a welcome labor supply in a tight market. "The more this goes on and the tougher it is to get to work - they simply cannot afford it," said Duncan Giles, president of NTEU Chapter 49.

Claim: "The Milwaukee County executive can sell the public museum, the airport and the zoo -- all on his own, without County Board approval"
Evidence Summary: The city of Gary and the Gary/Chicago International Airport Authority thwarted the $1.68 million sale of 20 acres across from the airport last year. The complaint alleged Gary officials intervened in the sale, and in past sale attempts, in order to secure the property for the airport. Sterling Bay is seeking a zoning change that would allow it to build more than 12 million square feet of offices, apartments, shops and hotel rooms on 54.5 acres of former industrial land. The common council is scheduled to vote on that measure Feb. 5.

Claim: "Sen. Obama wants to ""enact the single largest tax increase since the Second World War."""
Evidence Summary: Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, D-N.Y., recently announced that Democrats should increase the top personal income tax rates as high as 70 percent. That would be the highest income tax rate in the developed world, higher than all of our major trading partners and competitors. For decades polls have shown that most Americans believe no one should pay more than 25 percent of their income in taxes. President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes.” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and Bush wasn’t re-elected.

Claim: "In 2011, Carlos Lpez-Cantera staunchly supported a Florida bill modeled after Arizonas immigration law"
Evidence Summary: Scott had made more than a dozen trips to Puerto Rico, created programs to welcome islanders who fled their hurricane-ravaged island for Florida. “As a result, Democrats didn’t do as well as we would have liked in Florida, so there will be an important conversation, the beginning of several conversations of how we do better, which we absolutely need to do,” Alex said. McAllen Mayor Jim Darling said the impression that the region is under siege is wrong, and that it saw far higher numbers of migrants coming across in 2014.

Claim: "Says that data from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities suggest that the Texas budget gap is worse than New Yorks, about as bad as Californias, but not quite up to New Jersey levels."
Evidence Summary: Texas' last legislative session ended with one lawmaker threatening to shoot another after reporting Hispanic protesters to immigration agents. Now comes a test: whether a humbling 2018 for Texas Republicans will soften one of the most hard-right statehouses in the country. Some legislators in both parties foresee the midterm results and 2020's high stakes as curbing the appetite for divisive bills. Public school funding is the biggest issue singled out by both parties. Paying to help rebuild the Texas coast in the aftermath of 2017's Hurricane Harvey is another task.

Claim: "Marco Rubio wants to raise the Social Security retirement age, and cut benefits."
Evidence Summary: As deficits balloon following their tax cuts, GOP leaders suggest curbing the massive Social Security and Medicare programs. But the demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget, and the government projects the number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. Former Fed chairman Alan Greenspan, for example, warns a 70 percent top income tax rate would prove a "terrible mistake" by dampening economic activity.

Claim: "Discretionary spending has increased over 20-some percent in two years if you dont include the stimulus. If you put in the stimulus, its over 80 percent."
Evidence Summary: Federal spending outpaced revenue by $317 billion over the first three months of the fiscal year, the budget office reported. That was 41 percent higher than the same period a year ago, or 17 percent after factoring in payment shifts that made the fiscal 2018 first-quarter deficit appear smaller than it actually was. The widening deficit comes despite a booming economy and a low unemployment rate that would typically help fill the government’s coffers. The monthly numbers from the Congressional Budget Office also show an increase in spending on federal debt.

Claim: "The University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee has 2.8 students per faculty member, tied for second-lowest in its history since 1994."
Evidence Summary: The Great Recession reshaped the conversation in higher education to focus more on workplace skills and value. Several states now have performance-based higher education funding systems. The locations of college campuses can be a reflection of a bygone America. As people moved toward cities and the Sun Belt, many rural universities have fallen on hard times. The U.S. Department of Education defines “graduation rates” as the percentage of first-time, full-time undergraduates who obtain a bachelor’s degree within six years.

Claim: "He made time to go to the gym, but canceled a visit with wounded troops. Seems the Pentagon wouldn't allow him to bring cameras."
Evidence Summary: With no negotiations over the holidays, Trump complained he had been "lonely " at the White House, having skipped his getaway to Mar-a-Lago in Florida. He claimed his only companions were the "machine gunners," referring to security personnel, and "they don't wave, they don't smile" He also criticized Pelosi for visiting Hawaii. Last February, the president made an unannounced trip with Ivanka Trump for the dignified transfer of a Navy SEAL killed in Yemen.

Claim: "Judge Sotomayor has said ""that policy is made on the U.S. Court of Appeals."""
Evidence Summary: Federal district court judges in California, Washington, D.C., and Washington state issued orders blocking the policy nationwide. The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court to overturn up those lower court judgments. In defense of Trump, Solicitor Gen. Noel Francisco has argued that judges are wrongly interfering with the president’s authority to establish immigration policy. But supporters of the DACA program said nothing in the lower court rulings would prevent the government from undertaking deportation proceedings against any individual DACA recipient if the need arose.

Claim: "People on potshoot each other ...stab each other ...strangle each other, drive under the influence, kill families."
Evidence Summary: Murders in Alaska, Colorado, Oregon, and Washington went from about 450 in 2013 to almost 620 in 2017. The first four states to have legalized marijuana have seen sharp increases in murders and aggravated assaults since 2013. Vermont's Levine says the challenges remain daunting, including an “epidemic of social isolation.” One thing that has changed, Ciccarone says, is how many Americans view people with drug use disorders. “Society has softened its stance on what it means to be dependent on a drug,” he says.

Claim: "Since taking office in January 2011, the rainy day fund has increased by 226 percent."
Evidence Summary: The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. The US has experienced 99 months of consecutive jobs growth and a slowdown seems inevitable. Trump does, however, already have one over on Obama. Wage growth is finally picking up – a bit – after years of stagnation.

Claim: "Says that as Providences mayor, David Cicilline said the city had a world-class school system. Not only did Providence not have a world-class school system but as measured, was amongst the last school system in the entire country."
Evidence Summary: The mayor of Covington, Joe Meyer, expressed frustration that the incident was being linked with his city. State laws enacted amid past CPS fiscal crises established the city’s local school councils. But by slashing the number of councils and making the remaining groups responsible for entire neighborhood school ecosystems, Daley sees a new path to having community members decide how to prioritize scarce resources and solve problems such as empty school buildings. The former White House chief of staff sees the new neighborhood councils as a way to bring community input to the administrative ranks of his CPS-City Colleges hybrid.

Claim: "In 2002, Iran was more or less an American ally."
Evidence Summary: The United States and Iran are so hostile one wonders whether they will be enemies forever. “I think the best we can hope for is not to get into a war,” Limbert said. In theory, no Islamic country is better positioned than Iran to play a leading role in the Middle East. But that potential has been stunted because of Iran’s continued meddling in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Lebanon, and an antipathy for the United States that is mutual and obsessive.

Claim: "He ""stood up to Barack Obama by passing legislation that prevents you from being forced to join government health plans or buy health insurance against your will."""
Evidence Summary: House Democrats say they're getting involved on behalf of the millions of Americans with health issues. Democrats will need to quickly introduce bills that reinforce the ACA’s original protections and prevent the Trump administration from weakening it further. Republicans have a different choice to make. They can use the results of the election as an opportunity to officially cede the ground they have already really lost: that preexisting condition protections and the ACA are here to stay. The latest details were in a 300-page proposed regulation released Thursday afternoon.

Claim: "Before this day is out, 18 more veterans will have taken their own lives. That is the daily average, it is intolerable, and it has to stop."
Evidence Summary: "I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, or the sadness gripping their souls," Canales wrote. The Union Veterans Council, on behalf of its federal employee members, issued a rebuke to Wilkie. "This is an outrageous attempt to distract from the very serious crisis that tens of thousands of veterans have been hurled into with no end in sight," the group's executive director said.

Claim: (M)ore Georgians have jobs than at any other time since October 2008.
Evidence Summary: Despite stock market machinations, for the last three months of the year the American economy has created an average of 254,000 jobs. Add to that the monthly average of 141,000 new job openings the U.S. economy created through October (the most recent month available), and you begin to get a sense for just how strong this economy really is. Businesses that are confident about the economy are growing and creating new jobs at an accelerated pace, increasing the demand for employees. That explains why wages were up 3.2 percent year over year in December – the third straight month that number has exceeded 3 percent.

Claim: "When Standard Poors dropped our credit rating, what they said is, we dont have an ability to repay our debt. ... I was proved right in my position that the debt ceiling should not have been raised."
Evidence Summary: President Obama said the U.S. is a country that is good, that’s always been good. He also said that the American people are very conservative in the sense of not wanting radical change quickly. The new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it's O.K. to be mad about being in debt, says Julian Zelizer. To win the anxious middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions, Zelizer says, especially on health care and education.

Claim: "We do know that Romney personally approved over $70 million in fictional losses to the IRS as part of the notorious Son of Boss tax scandal, one of the largest tax avoidance schemes in history."
Evidence Summary: At important junctures of his public career Romney has revealed himself as a supremely transactional figure, flexible in altering his words and his positions to align with self-interest as the occasion demands. Romney was happy to accept Trump’s endorsements during his presidential run in 2012 and in his race for the Senate last year. A New York Times investigation found that Trump likely committed tax fraud with his father, Fred Trump, when the elder Trump transferred nearly half a billion dollars to his son in a manner that evaded taxes.

Claim: "The House of Representatives just voted 300-131 to remove country-of-origin labeling on chicken, pork, and beef sold in the U.S."
Evidence Summary: The number of meat and poultry products recalled in the US for potentially life-threatening health hazards has nearly doubled since 2013. The US Department of Agriculture logged 97 meat recalls for serious health hazards in 2018. The report acknowledges that advances in food safety technology, such as the use of whole genome sequencing, may be making it easier to detect foodborne illness. Yet meat industry leaders and many food watchdog groups say that the increase in recalls may be a sign that the regulatory system is working as it should be.

Claim: "DeWine took $1.9 million from big banks, supported legislation that helped Bernie Madoff make millions and protected predatory lenders while families lost their homes."
Evidence Summary: The theme of DeWine’s inauguration was “Faith, Family and Friends.” He”s a Catholic family man who lives on a historic farm in rural Cedarville. His style is expected to be different from Kasich's as he’ve expressed willingness to embrace more conservative policies. The moneyed interests in the Democratic party are in favor of helping the poor and reversing climate change. But the Democrats’ moneyed. interests don’t want more powerful labor unions. They are not in. favor of stronger antitrust enforcement against large corporations.

Claim: "Says Bobby Jindals parents used his birthright citizenship to become Americans, making him an anchor baby."
Evidence Summary: There will be no resolution to the limbo of Dreamers – children brought to the US by their undocumented parents. You can’t negotiate border security versus Dreamers with Trump because he lies. It’s about the same thing birtherism was about: Re-establishing the dominance of white Americans. Trump blamed Democrats for his administration's policy of separating immigrant families at the border, the so-called catch-and-release policy and for the deaths of two migrant children in detention at the southern border.

Claim: "Under Obamacare, Virginia taxpayers would have been forced to pay for abortions if the General Assembly had not recently intervened."
Evidence Summary: Abortion fights on unrelated bills is almost a certainty in the coming Congress, said Ross Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers University. Abortion-related impasses could also stall progress on annual spending bills if House Democrats keep their vow to eliminate current restrictions. Despite the Republicans’ loss of the House, anti-abortion forces gained one of their most sought-after victories in decades with the confirmation of Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. Another poll released this week showed how Americans feel about proposals to expand government-run health programs. While a majority (56%) supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS], called Medicare-for-all, large majorities on both sides supported “buy-ins” to existing government- run health plans.

Claim: "We had a No Child Left Behind a similar piece of legislation in our state a number of years ago, well before the federal law. And it's had a big impact here. It's improved schools."
Evidence Summary: "We need the government to start focusing on our education," says the teacher. "I hope that we can get progressive change," she says. "Being a good citizen sometimes conflicts with being good parents" "I want very much for them to go to a public school just like I went to public schools. We have to do something.” "I actually think that there are times when maybe the best interest of your own kid isn't actually the best choice" "We’ve made a lot of progress. We need to continue to make progress"

Claim: "Classified material has a header which says top-secret, secret, confidential. Nothing, and I will repeat this and this is verified in the report by the Department of Justice, none of the emails sent or received by me had such a header."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md. ), in a letter sent to the White House on Wednesday, outlined concerns about the handling of sensitive information dating back to Trump's 2016 election. The probe is one of the first to target Trump’s administration since Democrats won the House majority in November's elections. Comey confirmed that he "did not have written authorization from the FBI to share the February 14th memo, the unclassified memo" with Richman, but Comey would not provide more detail on what memos were shared.

Claim: "Were the seventh highest taxed state in America. And thats not just state, its local as well."
Evidence Summary: There is no disputing a relationship between higher tax rates in states and lower net population migration. Blue states like Connecticut, Illinois and New York with higher taxes and a higher cost of living are losing residents or gaining population at very low rates. No-income-tax states such as Florida, Nevada, Texas and Washington have grown at double-digit rates this decade.Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy, such as building and maintaining roads so everyone can get to their daily jobs.

Claim: Says it wasnt until he and a Senate colleague were able to wrangle the actual streaming video from BP that scientists were able to calculate the oil spill flow.
Evidence Summary: EPA's Wheeler says report was based on the ‘worst-case scenario’ He is now saying it was an active potential proposal, at least through October or November. “We don’t need to create artificial crises, we have enough real crises,” says Sen. Bernie Sanders. The Bureau of Land Management is postponing the Arctic Refuge-related meetings. ‘The BP spill was a disaster for our communities. It shut down our livelihood and the ability to provide for our families,’ says Mr Friloux.

Claim: "A bag of Cheetos costs less to buy than an apple, and in some Milwaukee neighborhoods good luck trying to find an apple or a banana or some sort of healthy option"
Evidence Summary: National Academy of Medicine report on the influence of marketing on diet and health in youth found that “unhealthy food marketing puts children’s health at risk.” Food companies are disproportionately marketing the least healthy foods to children of color, the report found. Those who are living in socioeconomically disadvantaged communities tend to lack access to healthier food options, known as food deserts. The report also found that companies didn’t spend any money to advertise healthy food options of their products on Spanish-language television.

Claim: "Under Virginia law, if you are a non-federally licensed (gun) dealer, you cannot get a background check even if you want one."
Evidence Summary: The full measure, when it goes into effect later this year, will expand the background check process to ensure that vetting for rifle purchases is the same as for buying pistols. Under the new law, it would be illegal for retailers to sell guns without being certified by the state. Similar legislation introduced by Democrats while they were in House minority over the last eight years was never considered while Republicans were in control. Despite polling indicating widespread public support for the concept, the bill is unlikely to be considered in the Republican-controlled Senate.

Claim: Says he is the only candidate in the race for Clackamas County Chair who will refuse to join the Public Employees Retirement System.
Evidence Summary: Candidates Anthony Piraino and Caesar Schiavone were approved for the ballot even though they had failed to attach the nominating paperwork correctly. Trustee Dennis Fudala had not stated on his paperwork if he wanted to run for the two-year or four-year term, nor numbered his pages or submitted original documents. The remaining candidates include incumbent trustees Richard Gust, Linda Sittig and Mark Ottersen. City Manager Wally Bobkiewicz has been named one of five finalists for on open position as county administrator in Clackamas County, Oregon.

Claim: "Says Donald Trump is the first person running for president, Republican or Democrat, who refused to say that he would respect the results of this election."
Evidence Summary: In an op-ed published by the Washington Post, Romney said Trump's leadership is unnecessarily dividing Americans and alienating allies. He questioned Trump's character, and said he has not "risen to the mantle of the office" Romney welcomed Trump's support for his own presidential bid in 2012. He later criticized Trump when the New York businessman successfully sought the Republican presidential nomination in 2016. The voice of dissent raised the question of whether the president will face a challenge in the Republican primaries ahead of the 2020 election.

Claim: "The downsizing of Pinellas County government resulted in about 1,200 people being laid off in a 12 percent unemployment market. I can tell you that every one of them was hired from the time that Ms. Latvala went into office in 2000."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom’s new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. “Any of those federal employees who are furloughed, come in and we’ll get you unemployment insurance,” he said. The solutions cannot be limited to new revenue raised by expanded gambling and legalizing recreational marijuana. Employers want deeper workers’ compensation reform and property tax relief.“My kids can’t afford the lifestyle we gave them without leaving town.” His son plans to move to Orlando.

Claim: "In the last 10 years we've only had 7,000 barrels of oil spilled in the Gulf ... not counting hurricanes. This well is spewing that amount every day and a half."
Evidence Summary: Thousands of shale wells drilled in the last five years are pumping less oil and gas than their owners forecast to investors. The Wall Street Journal compared the well-productivity estimates that top shale-oil companies gave investors to projections from third parties. U.S. crude production stood at a record 11.7 million barrels per day in late 2018, making America the world's biggest oil producer. Others are not sitting idle, with Russian output reaching a record of more than 11 million bpd in 2018.

Claim: "In Wisconsin, Gov. Scott Walker has created a manufacturing-led jobs recovery. 30,000 new jobs were created this year, with 15,000 created in the struggling manufacturing sector."
Evidence Summary: Manufacturing added 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created added under Trump, compared to a net loss of over 200,000 under Obama. Walker didn't deliver on his signature 2010 campaign promise to create 250,000 private-sector jobs in his first term. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in up to 13,000 new jobs.

Claim: "Polls indicate that white people think that black people are less intelligent. They think theyre less trustworthy, less patriotic."
Evidence Summary: In recent decades, politicians have trafficked in the idea that white Americans are biologically or culturally superior, Hughey says. Republicans have done this more consistently than Democrats for much of the last 50 years, he says. Racism — provided that it is carefully calibrated and not too overt — sells. It brings “a large segment of U.S. society to the polls and opens their wallets,” Hughey writes.“Racism and white supremacy are wicked. They’re incompatible with what we know to be true, that every person is made with untold dignity and value”

Claim: "If every small business in our state, on average, was able to create one new job we would cut our unemployment rate in half."
Evidence Summary: Small businesses account for two-thirds of new job creation, so the booming labor market is also a reflection of their strength. Last month, 312,000 jobs were created, significantly outpacing economists' expectations. There are now 6.9 million unfilled jobs in the country, surpassing the number of people unemployed last year for the first time in history. The labor market has been so strong that it has drawn millions of people back into the workforce. This small business vibrancy drives economic growth and raises living standards.

Claim: "Congress, criminals, Scientologists and other groups are exempt from Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: The case involves a lawsuit filed a year ago by nearly a score of Republican attorneys general. At issue is a requirement under President Barack Obama's health care law that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. The Trump administration expanded those exemptions and added "moral convictions" as a basis to opt out of providing birth control. The ruling blocks the religious and moral exemptions to the Obamacare requirement from taking effect in the California-led group of states while the litigation plays out. The U.S. Supreme Court will probably have the final say.

Claim: "Al-Qaida operatives, have said, Hey, we want you to use this loophole (for purchasing guns despite being on a watch list) to attack and kill Americans."
Evidence Summary: Gunmakers and dealers gather this week in Las Vegas for the industry's largest annual conference. They will be grappling with slumping sales and a shift in politics that many didn't envision two years ago when gun-friendly Donald Trump and a GOP-controlled Congress took office. The industry was facing a so-called "Trump slump," a plummet in sales that happens amid gun rights-friendly administrations. Instead, fueled by the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history, the federal government banned bump stocks and introduced legislation that would require background checks.

Claim: "An overwhelming majority of Americans support passage of the DREAM Act, which would provide a path to citizenship for undocumented youth willing to work for a college degree or serve in our armed forces."
Evidence Summary: The president's proposal resurrects an earlier bipartisan legislation known as the BRIDGE Act. It would allow an estimated 700,000 of the so-called DREAMers to remain in the country legally. The Supreme Court’s pass on ruling on DACA also lands amid government paralysis that has 800,000 federal workers going without a paycheck and struggling to pay their bills. Is this what America is about? Turning the American Dream into the American Nightmare for young people brought here when they were children, through no fault of their own?

Claim: "Says Ohio Gov. John Kasich got lucky with a thing called fracking, which is why Ohio is doing well."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has become the world's largest producer of natural gas. President Donald Trump has pushed for more drilling in the state of Colorado. The state is home to the largest share of the nation's natural gas production, according to a study. The study also found that the state is the biggest producer of oil and natural gas in the United States, followed by Texas and Wyoming. The report was published in the Wall Street Journal, which is owned by The New York Times, The Washington Post, and The Wallstreet Journal.

Claim: "The Associated Press called Charlie Crist's attacks ""over the top,"" ""out of context,"" and ""not true."""
Evidence Summary: CNN's Ana Navarro deleted a tweet that likened Covington parents to paper towels in a toilet. The National Review put out a short piece online suggesting the boys had defiled their faith, as if they’d spat on the cross. This is the new debilitating fear in America: being accused of thought crime and attacked by cyberbarbarians. All this plays into Trump's barrage of "fake news" criticism, and he didn't hesitate to call the Buzzfeed story a "disgrace to journalism"

Claim: "Says 7,000 millionaires gamed the system to pay no income taxes."
Evidence Summary: O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," O'Brien said. The consultation paper is available on the Treasury website and submissions close on 22 February. The only winners in the race to the bottom on corporate tax are the wealthiest among us, said O’Brien. The New Yorker’s Adam Davidson argues that high taxes wouldn’t rake in that much cash.

Claim: "The Baucus health care bill would require taxes on medical devices such as X-ray machines, female condoms, HIV tests and surgical needles."
Evidence Summary: A federal judge in Pennsylvania on Monday blocked the Trump administration from enforcing new rules. The rules would allow employers to obtain exemptions from an Obamacare requirement that they provide health insurance that covers women's birth control. At issue is a requirement under President Barack Obama's health care law that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. The new rules set to go into effect on Monday would allow more categories of employers, including publicly traded companies, to back out of the requirement by claiming religious objections. They would also allow small businesses and other employers to object on moral grounds.

Claim: Says Oak Grove is one of the largest cities in Oregon and is the biggest city in Clackamas County and its not a city.
Evidence Summary: Donna Miller was elected in November to represent much of the south and southwest suburbs on the Cook County Board. The Oak Forest City Council on Tuesday approved without opposition a lease agreement in which Miller will have operate her 6th District office inside the City Hall building. Miller will use the tax advocate office, which will be relocated to currently-empty space within City Hall while walls are erected in the rear of the council chambers to create another private office for Miller. Mayor Henry Kuspa said he believes Oak Forest will benefit from having Miller operating at City Hall.

Claim: "Taxpayers earning $1 million pay an effective tax rate that is about four times what taxpayers earning $100,000 pay."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez said tax rates for those earning more than $10m should be 70 percent. A poll taken last weekend by The Hill-HarrisX found 59 percent support for taking income over $10 million at 70%. A 2017 Reuters-Ipsos poll found 76 percent of respondents agreeing with the proposition that “the wealthiest Americans should pay higher tax rates,” with 53 percent expressing strong agreement. In Illinois, where newly elected Gov. J.B. Pritzker has promised to work to overturn the state constitutional ban on graduated state income tax rates.

Claim: "Health proposal would create a ""40% tax on health care benefits of middle-class workers."""
Evidence Summary: New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio proposed a $100 million plan to expand the city's public-option health-care plan. The plan would allow people who do not get health insurance from an employer to buy health insurance through Medicaid or Medicare. Two-thirds of Republicans and wide margins of Democrats and independents supported the proposals. The survey found majority support for more incremental moves to a nationalized system. But respondents viewed it very favorably if it would eliminate all health insurance premiums and reduce out-of-pocket health care costs.

Claim: "Since January 2015, the majority of our Austin City Council meetings have extended past 10 p.m. and many of our meetings have gone past midnight."
Evidence Summary: Ald. Richard Mervine, 8th Ward, said the committee “has been able to improve an event, or at least improve it for the citizens” Under the new system, aldermen would actually “have the opportunity to comment earlier in the process,” Alex Voigt, assistant chief of staff in the mayor’s office, said. “When we looked at the fact that the majority of events are already approved by staff, we determined it was better to keep it that way,’ she said.

Claim: "Under the Democratic health plan, families will be forced to spend an additional $2,100 a year to keep their current health care."
Evidence Summary: Nancy Pelosi: Democrats' mandate is to lower health care costs and prescription drug prices. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., is planning to introduce an expansive Green New Deal plan. New York City's mayor is proposing measures that would guarantee coverage for all New Yorkers, including undocumented immigrants. Critics claimed these changes and others like them would lead to “higher costs and less coverage” and would “eliminate protections for people with pre-existing conditions”

Claim: "Without representation, (the IRS) can increase taxes."
Evidence Summary: Koskinen: "If you don’t pay refunds to people who are expecting them on a timely basis, all hell breaks loose" "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "There is power in elected members of the United States Congress speaking up in the interest of their constituency and the American public" "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," says Koskinen, who stepped down in 2017 as IRS commissioner.

Claim: "So many people were critical of Secretary (John) Kerry going to Paris and talking with Hamas, because Kerry was seen as supporting Hamas to the exclusion of the Arab League."
Evidence Summary: Pompeo directly repudiated Obama’s 2009 Cairo speech, which was an overture by the then-new president to the Islamic world. “There is a lot of ambitious language, but very little actual commitment of U.S. resources,” said Jon Alterman, director of the Middle East program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. On Twitter, Martin Indyk, who served in the Obama administration, called the speech “shameful Obama-bashing.”

Claim: "The Republicans' alternative health care plan ""will still let insurers raise premiums four times faster than wages."""
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration announced proposed rule changes that would lead to a modest premium increase next year under the Affordable Care Act. The roughly 1 percent increase could feed into the Democratic argument that the Trump administration is trying to "sabotage" coverage for millions. The administration said the proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. President Trump, who once predicted "Obamacare" would "implode" or "explode," took credit for calm insurance markets.

Claim: "Wisconsin does not have a deficit. Thanks to Republican reforms, the 2014 budget will begin with a $443 million surplus."
Evidence Summary: Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers is expected to deliver his first State of the State speech later this month. Evers says he wants to work with Republicans to build a more civil political discourse in Wisconsin. But many of his priorities run counter to what Republicans want, including expanding Medicaid. The federal budget deficit continued to rise in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and is on pace to top $1 trillion for the year, data released Tuesday shows. The widening deficit comes despite a booming economy and a low unemployment rate that would typically help fill the coffers.

Claim: "The University of Florida announced this past week that it was dropping its computer science department ... Meanwhile, the athletic budget for the current year is $97.7 million, an increase of more than $2 million from last year."
Evidence Summary: UTLA's liabilities outpaced assets by $276,000 as of June 30, 2018. School administrators “are aware of the negative financial results,” auditors stated. The plan was to boost student enrollment and tighten the budget for 2018-19, it stated. If the district were to give the UTLA everything it wants, it would cost the district an extra $800 million a year, Beutner said. The number of undergraduates majoring in computer science more than doubled from 2013 to 2017, to over 106,000.

Claim: "Says Texas unemployment is dire in various ways such as a doubling in the jobless rate during Rick Perrys governorship. Also, the Texas rate has increased faster than the national rate during Barack Obamas presidency."
Evidence Summary: The latest monthly jobs shows that the economic weakness causing stock markets to drop isn't yet visible in the employment figures. The unemployment rate rose to 3.9 percent, reflecting more people quitting their jobs and new entrants to the labor force. In percentage terms, Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. Cities and states should focus on broader types of employment to extend economic improvement to every part of society, instead of trying to attract the big names such as Amazon.

Claim: "In discussing the attacks on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya,Ms. Rice did say a terrorist attack. Its not that she put the whole thing on the video."
Evidence Summary: Rice initially claimed on several talk shows that the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi was triggered by protests over an anti-Islam video. Critics said Rice, Clinton and other government officials intentionally deceived the public about the nature of the attack. The judge denied a request by the conservative group Judicial Watch to make Rice and Rhodes sit for depositions, but agreed to have them answer written questions. He also agreed to Judicial Watch's request to depose the State Department about the preparation of talking points for Rice.

Claim: "By the time she turns 3 years old, a child born into a low-income home hears 30 million fewer words than a child from a well-off family."
Evidence Summary: A family earning the average median income in the U.S. spends about one-fifth of their household income on childcare for one child. For women making minimum wage, full-time childcare costs 64 percent of their income. To keep Mom at home, the average single-income family must forfeit decent public schools and preschools, health insurance, and college degrees. Today’s middle-class mother is trapped: She can't afford to work, and she can’t afford not to.

Claim: "Says when he was governor, Wisconsin cut unemployment to 2.1 percent and the states unemployment rate was the lowest in the country for 40 consecutive months."
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide.

Claim: "13,000 Floridians are able to vote -- but their governor wont tell them."
Evidence Summary: Amendment 4 restores voting rights to up to 1.5 million mostly black felons, other than murderers and sexual offenders. Under the former governor, Rick Scott, formerly incarcerated people were forced to wait five years after finishing their sentences before being able to apply to have their voting rights reinstated. In December, DeSantis said it would be months before Florida’s Republican-dominated legislature would approve “implementing language” to allow the measure to be passed into law.

Claim: "More than 1.5 million people moved into Georgia between the past two Census counts, and a majority consider themselves, African-American, Latino or Asian-American."
Evidence Summary: African-Americans are more likely than other racial or ethnic groups to work for the federal government. Today, some 380,000 American families have a member sitting at home without a paycheck. In 2010, the bureau over-counted white people who did not identify as Hispanic, while leaving out more than 1.5 million black and Latino residents from the count. The NAACP is leading a lawsuit alleging that the Census Bureau's "deficient" preparations for 2020 risk a "massive undercount" of communities of color.

Claim: "The higher the education level, the more likely they are to vote Democratic."
Evidence Summary: "Class sizes are a political winner. No one thinks it's bad. If money grew on trees, then sure," Chingos said. "I look at some of the predatory, for-profit educations that just don’t care. I don�'t think that’s a win for anybody, including the students," he said. “Most have yet to reach voting age, and their outlook could be altered considerably by changing national conditions, world events or technological innovations.”

Claim: "According to independent experts, Donald Trumps tax plan would blow up the debt by over $5 trillion and would in some instances disadvantage middle-class families compared to the wealthy."
Evidence Summary: Tax revenues fell $183 billion — or 5.6 percent — short of that projection. Republicans, particularly in the Trump administration, sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself. The uncomfortable truth for the bill’s supporters is that the tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit, which now appears on track to top $1 trillion this year. If growth fades in the coming years — as many economists believe it will — the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more.

Claim: "Then-Gov. Carl Sanders put 56 percent of the state budget into education, a figure that has not been achieved since."
Evidence Summary: The strike also drew attention to how California, one of the wealthiest and most liberal states in the country, spends relatively little on its public schools. The state’s chronically constrained school spending is largely attributed to its property tax laws, and especially to Proposition 13, a ballot initiative passed in 1978. “There are a lot of falsehoods out there regarding the law as we need $7 billion to completely fund the schools, but unfortunately we can’t get it all at once,” Kifowit said.

Claim: "The border security plan of Sens. McCain and Kyl called for 3,000 additional troops to keep us safe. President Obama says hell send 524."
Evidence Summary: U.S. military support to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is now slated to end on Sept. 30. There are currently roughly 2,350 active-duty troops currently supporting the border mission, down from a high of nearly 6,000 late last year. President Donald Trump deployed more than 5,000 troops to the border in October, in anticipation of the arrival of a so-called “migrant caravan” The president has suggested that the number of troops involved in the operation — dubbed “Faithful Patriot” — could rise to 15,000.

Claim: "Sherrod Brown has stood side by side with President Barack Obama, presiding over the most rapid increase in the debt over the last 2.5 years and hurtling toward the worst jobs record in the modern era."
Evidence Summary: Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown is launching a tour of three states that cast pivotal early votes in the 2020 presidential primary. The move from the Ohio Democrat is a key step before he decides whether to launch a campaign for the White House. Brown won a third term in November on the strength of a message he calls the "Dignity of Work" He hopes his brand of economic populism can counter Trump's strength with blue collar voters in the Midwest and elsewhere in the country. He referred to Trump on Wednesday as a "phony" populist.

Claim: "During Sherrod Browns past decade as a D.C. politician, more than one out of every four jobs that has left America, left from Ohio. ... Sherrod Brown will own these horrendous Ohio job numbers next year."
Evidence Summary: Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown is launching a tour of three states that cast pivotal early votes in the 2020 presidential primary. The move from the Ohio Democrat is a key step before he decides whether to launch a campaign for the White House. Brown won a third term in November on the strength of a message he calls the "Dignity of Work" He hopes his brand of economic populism can counter President Trump's appeal to white, working-class voters that helped him flip Ohio and other key midwestern states.

Claim: The auditor [for the city of Providence] was not locked out of access to the citys finances.
Evidence Summary: Board President Michael Raczak said he’s glad the audit did not turn up anything bad. Paveza said even if board members had taken campaign donations, one member couldn’t offer special favors to business owners and builders. Chico also said the city inspector general should be allowed to fully investigate the City Council and its committees. State Rep. Ford said “no one in government should have unilateral authority” over important decisions.“You also have to ban all outside income,” Chico said.

Claim: "Since I took office, Wisconsin now has the 2nd highest health care quality ranking in the country."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Rauner pointed to some small-bore achievements during his farewell appearance Thursday. But he didn't come close to backing up his parting boast, "I’ll put our track record of accomplishment up against any governor in the U.S. in the last four years" He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests.

Claim: The Obama Administration is suing a Wisconsin company for forcing employees to speak English.
Evidence Summary: The National Air Traffic Controllers Association is suing the Trump administration on behalf of the thousands of members of their union that have not been paid. The suit, filed in federal court in Washington, D.C., claims the administration deprived workers of wages without due process. The Trump administration has until early March to respond to the suit, she said.Wisconsin-based retail chain Shopko Stores has filed for bankruptcy protection. The company says excessive debt and ongoing competitive pressure are forcing it to seek protection from creditors.

Claim: "McDonalds hamburgers are only 15 percent real beef. The other 85 percent is meat filler cleansed with ammonia, which causes stomach and intestinal cancer."
Evidence Summary: The report criticised the US food safety system for the fact that antibiotic-resistant strains of salmonella are not considered an adulterant in US meat products. Trump himself lent credence to this theory, citing the commitment to the cleanliness of fast food chains like McDonald’s and Wendy's in remarks at a 2016 town hall event. “[Trump] had a longtime fear of being poisoned, one reason why he liked to eat at McDonald's — nobody knew he was coming and the food was safely premade," Wolff wrote.

Claim: "The United States has 10,000 IRS agents making sure that you dont take an improper charity deduction, but to fight terrorism, it has less than two dozen people focusing on countering violent extremism at home."
Evidence Summary: For every dollar spent on a $5 billion southern border wall, American public safety could benefit exponentially more from spending it on counterterrorism elsewhere. "Getting communications from the IRS tends to freak people out, so when you can't get them an answer, it gets a little scary," says Schwartz, of Carlsbad, California. " walking away from these programs, as the current administration has done, is hardly a recipe for success in countering extremism here in the United States," he says. "Even relatively modest sums would have significant impact in this area," he adds.

Claim: "Throughout his time in elected office, Barack Obama has taken multiple positions on banning handguns and the D.C. handgun ban."
Evidence Summary: Gun-control advocates are rejoicing in the gun industry's misfortunes of late. They're chalking it up to not just shifting attitudes among Americans but a shift in elected political leaders. "Without a fake menace in the White House to gin up fears, gun sales have been in a Trump slump," said John Feinblatt, president of Everytown for Gun Safety. "The American people have been demanding we take action and this new Congress will deliver," said Rep. Thompson.

Claim: "The Obama White House is renaming Christmas trees ""holiday trees."""
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump's presidency has entered a strange period, a kind of Trumpian Twilight Zone. The odd mood around the Trump presidency has a lot to do with what happened in December. There’s a growing unease that the daily chaos of the Trump show has become unsustainable. The wheels are coming off the national bus, and that things are going to reach some sort of breaking point in 2019, he says. "With Republicans like him who needs Democrats?" he asks. "I don’t think anybody cares about him in Illinois"

Claim: "In just one month, the Democrats have spent more than President Bush spent in seven years on the war in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan and Hurricane Katrina combined."
Evidence Summary: Republican messaging on taxes peaked in mid-October, with a majority of ads mentioning the topic in some way. Only about one-third of GOP ads during the rest of the campaign mentioned taxes. Instead, Republicans ran more ads focused on immigration and warning of the dangers of sanctuary cities. Democrats just rode back to power in the House campaigning not to tighten the government’s belt, but to think big about what government can do to help everyday Americans. Americans seem keen on government actually doing something about stagnant pay, devastating climate change, worsening inequality, and deep structural fissures like racism and sexism.

Claim: "Texas women make an average of $8,355 less per year than men doing the very same job."
Evidence Summary: We are seventh-grade students of Pope John XXIII School in Evanston. We understand that many jobs pay men more than they pay women for the same amount of work. Since we are all created equal, shouldn’t we be treated equally? We hope to spread the word so that we can fix this injustice. — Charlene Solis and Kylie Titzer, Evanston                Capitalism in U.S. lacks heart.                Women tend to work in lower-paying jobs and are more likely to take time off.

Claim: "I'm prolife. I'm not going to apologize for becoming prolife. Ronald Reagan followed that same course, as did Henry Hyde and George Herbert Walker Bush. And I'm proud to be prolife."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has shown a willingness to subordinate principle to self-interest. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. Romney cozied up to Planned Parenthood to demonstrate his pro-choice commitments. In 2012, facing a much different electorate, Romney promptly abandoned that stance and called for defunding Planned Parenthood in the Republican presidential primaries. "The argument, I guess here, is that would you kill baby Hitler?” Shapiro said in what appeared to be a response to a question submitted online.

Claim: "Says the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act adopted last year contains a series of slush funds, set up to stay on the books automatically, with little or no oversight."
Evidence Summary: House Democrats say they're getting involved on behalf of the millions of Americans with health issues who would have trouble getting insurance without the ACA's protections. Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., called intervention a waste of taxpayer dollars "to defend the indefensible" "Reading the tea leaves, I think there's big change coming," a health care expert says. "The pricing is hurting patients, and we've stopped a lot of it, but we're going to stop all of it," Trump says.

Claim: "Roughly 500,000 Georgians -- or about 5 percent of the states residents -- have gone through a background check to legally obtain a Georgia weapons carry license."
Evidence Summary:  Background checks were at an all-time high in 2016, President Barack Obama's last full year in office. Since then, background checks have been at about 25 million each year. Nearly 40,000 Americans were killed with firearms in 2017, the majority of them gun suicides. An estimated 22% of Americans who bought a gun in recent years did so without a background check, according to the best recent survey data.. Bill Barr said keeping weapons out of the hands of mentally ill people was, quote, "the problem of our time"

Claim: "Under Scott Walker, right now, were 46th in the country in terms of new businesses started."
Evidence Summary: He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said. "We're going to be just fine going forward."

Claim: "Says Sen. Luther Olsen, his recall opponent, supported the sale of state-owned power plants not to the highest bidder, but to the biggest donors with no oversight."
Evidence Summary: PG&E's woes will force the governor to immediately show he can manage a crisis while navigating a special interest brawl. Unionized workers who maintain electricity infrastructure are fearful for their jobs, and utilities’ procurement of renewable energy plays a central role in California’s climate goals. Local government leaders are insisting that victims get made whole, while insurers want to recoup costs. "If the power doesn’t flow, guess who gets blamed for it: the governor," said Garry South, the veteran Democratic strategist who advised Gov. Gray Davis through the last PG&E bankruptcy during the energy crisis.

Claim: "We have 93 million people out of work. They look for jobs, they give up, and all of a sudden, statistically, theyre considered employed."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "And I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments," he adds. "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I”m doing," the president says of his tax plan.

Claim: "Of the 25 wealthiest nations, were the only one that doesnt provide basic health coverage."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. The health care industry heavily markets its own importance and pushes treating illness over preventing it with lifestyle modification. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "13 percent of Americans, the lowest ever, are without health care."
Evidence Summary: The uninsured rate among U.S. adults has reached its highest level in roughly four years, Gallup reported on Wednesday. The pollster found that 13.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs.

Claim: The most significant driver of out-migration [from Rhode Island] is the estate tax.
Evidence Summary: New U.S. Census numbers show the ‘Illinois Exodus’ is ramping up. For the fifth straight year, the state lost more residents than it gained. Illinois’ obligations to its pension system continue to squeeze spending on education, social services and other state programs. The less fortunate should be assisted through social service programs until they can get on their own feet and become independent, writes John Sutter. He says taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy.

Claim: "Says if the (Iran nuclear) deal gets rejected, they still get $150 billion."
Evidence Summary: Head of Iran's nuclear programme, Ali Akbar Salehi, said technicians had begun “preliminary activities for designing’ a new way of producing 20%-enriched uranium. Salehi warned that Iran could begin mass production of more advanced centrifuges if the deal collapses. Trump, who campaigned on a promise to tear up the nuclear deal, said he ultimately pulled America out of the accord over Iran's ballistic missile program and its malign influence on the wider Mideast.

Claim: "New York State has been horribly, horribly hurt by NAFTA"
Evidence Summary: A common 2016 campaign riff was his promise to bring jobs back, get companies to return production to the U.S., and scrap NAFTA. Interestingly, it also got the attention of progressive trade critics on the left who had also been calling to renegotiate NAFTA for decades. Lori Wallach, director at Public Citizen’s Global Trade, explains how their critique of corporate-rigged trade policies managed to align in some surprising ways with the president's trade nationalist agenda. While NAFTA 2.0 shows some progress, there are still a lot of improvements they want to see made.

Claim: "The CNBC debate was supposed to be three hours, and he renegotiated it down to two hours."
Evidence Summary: The broadcast networks shifted back to regularly scheduled programming quickly after the Democratic rebuttal from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. The four broadcast networks and three cable news channels provided Trump with an estimated $17.7 million of airtime, according to Apex Marketing Group. The company calculated the value of the Democratic response at $9 million. The broadcast network Fox, which doesn’t always air presidential addresses, used Fox News anchors Shepard Smith and Chris Wallace to critique the speech while Sean Hannity covered it for the Fox News cable channel.

Claim: "We bring in enough tax revenue to service our debt, pay for Medicare and Medicaid and Social Security, and then still have about $300 (billion) or $400 billion left over."
Evidence Summary: The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth, which in turn produces increasingly higher revenues several years down the road — enough to reduce the “cost” of the bill to the deficit. But if growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more.

Claim: "McDonalds workers in Denmark have a union. Earn $45,000/year."
Evidence Summary: Frida Ghitis: Fight for $15 is a way for people of all backgrounds to have a voice. She says it's also a way to reverse decades of attacks on workers' unions. Ghitis says more than 22 million workers have won more than $68 billion in raises since the campaign started. She asks: How do you pay for it? How do we make it possible for people to join together and fight for a better life for all of our families and communities? She says the answer is to give people a voice and a chance to be heard.

Claim: "Since 2009, weve cut homelessness (among veterans) by a third."
Evidence Summary: If current trends continue, the number of aging homeless people will more than double in three major metropolitan areas. The proportion of homeless people being turned away from accommodation services has increased steadily over the past five years. Philadelphia's homeless shelters also are struggling with an influx of older homeless people who have complex medical problems the shelters are not designed and staffed to handle. L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti says the city's getting more volunteers around homeless causes than ever before. Residents "still need a lot of help in their neighborhoods," he says, "but they're feeling what they voted for starting to come to fruition"

Claim: We have no idea what is contained in [electronic cigarette] vapor.
Evidence Summary:  pediatrician: If an adolescent has developed a nicotine addiction as a result of vaping, we have already failed. FDA chief Gottlieb: "I find myself debating with tobacco makers and retailers the merits of selling fruity flavors in ways that remain easily accessible to kids" UK has official guidance on tobacco harm reduction that recognises nicotine is not the harmful substance in tobacco (it is the thousands of other chemicals in cigarettes) In the US, the statement that nicotine harms the developing brain is widely used in official documents.

Claim: "As a percentage of our gross domestic product, the defense budget remains just 3.6 percent. This figure is low by all historical standards."
Evidence Summary: The NATO budget that all members contribute to proportionally based on their gross domestic product is $2.5 billion annually. The U.S. (which has the largest GDP) pays $550 million, or 22 percent. Trump’s criticism is not that countries fail to meet their stated annual requirements to the alliance but that they neglect to spend enough on their own national defense, respectively. The big increase in the defense appropriations for fiscal 2019 is almost all going... But these numbers represent respective national defense budgets.

Claim: "Last year, we saw the first reduction in the federal prison population in 32 years."
Evidence Summary: President Trump’s figure for the percentage of unauthorized immigrants in federal prisons is exaggerated. Out of the Bureau of Prisons’ total inmate population of 183,058 in the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year, 21 percent were immigrants, both legal and undocumented. "It's something I've been dreaming about for close to 21 years now, 22 years now," says 52-year-old man who was released from prison for the second time in three years. "I've just been praying and hoping that this day would come," he says.

Claim: Connecticuts take on slot machines is 25 cents on the dollar. And the states take on table games: zero.
Evidence Summary: The question for many lawmakers will be whether City Hall should be involved in regulating a casino owned by City Hall. We’ve long argued that letting Chicago regulate Chicago would be preposterous. Never mind those 33 aldermen convicted of corruption over the years, or those facing prosecution now. The Gaming Board has uncovered and eradicated wrongdoing and inappropriate associations. Four times, the board disregarded power politics and acted aggressively to keep attempts at criminal influence on casino construction or operation from becoming major embarrassments.

Claim: "Says Donald Trump was one of the people who rooted for the housing crisis. He said back in 2006, Gee, I hope it does collapse because then I can go in and buy some and make some money."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump has given up pretending that Mexicans will buy us a wall, and now is focusing his energy on arguing why we should buy them a wall. If he pulls this off, Trump will have proved that — just like he often says — America truly is a nation of fools. Trump negotiated some great deals early in his career, including Trump Tower and the redevelopment of the Commodore Hotel. But then Trump became a celebrity in the mid-1980s and stopped using many of these techniques. This led to multiple poor negotiations in which he overpaid by tens of millions for various assets.

Claim: "The Geneva Convention did not apply, until 2005, to the war on terror."
Evidence Summary: The first planeload of detainees arrived in Cuba almost exactly 17 years ago, on January 11, 2002. The current discussions without much actual policy guidance from the White House is reminiscent of the 2001 scramble to find a place to detain nearly 800 fighters. Unlike in Afghanistan, where the U.S. military collected evidence against al-Qaida fighters as they picked them up on the battlefield, the ISIS fighters in Syria are not in U.N. custody.“Everyone is doing politics and the people suffer,” said Roman, 62.

Claim: "Canadian middle class incomes are now higher than in the United States. They are working fewer hours for more pay, living longer on average, and facing less income inequality."
Evidence Summary: The opportunity to get ahead has been transformed from a shared reality to a perquisite of already being ahead. Those raised near the top of the income ladder now have a 70% chance of realising the dream. Almost two-thirds of the jobs growth since 2008 has gone to those on the bottom-half of the pay ladder, while workers with low qualifications account for almost half of the growth in employment. In 2018 the median annual earnings of men was $68,848, for women it was just $48,776.

Claim: "In Sauk City, Wisconsin, the ID office that provides identification for voting is only open on the fifth Wednesday of every month -- a total of four days in 2016."
Evidence Summary: A federal judge on Thursday struck down early-voting restrictions Wisconsin Republicans adopted in a December lame-duck legislative session. The judge also struck down a law passed during the lame duck session that requires a 2-year expiration date on student IDs used for identification at the polls. The suit was filed by One Wisconsin Institute and Citizen Action of Wisconsin Education Fund, progressive advocacy groups, with backing from the National Redistricting Foundation. Critics said Wisconsin Republicans passed the voting restrictions because they were stung after losing all five statewide races.

Claim: "Nevada has been recently ranked No. 1 in unemployment, foreclosures, violent crime, personal bankruptcy and divorce."
Evidence Summary: Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers’ claims jumped. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce.

Claim: "Says New Jersey has gained 143,000 new private-sector jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. private sector added 271,000 jobs in December, according to a report released Thursday. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion. Health care led the broad-based job gains with 58,000. Leisure and hospitality, which includes restaurants and bars, added 55,000; professional and business services, 43,000, and retailers, 24,000,. Construction added 38,000jobs after not adding any in November. And manufacturers added 32,000 despite the Trump administration’s trade fight with China.

Claim: "Says Rick Scott spent $800,000 of your tax dollars upgrading the Governors Mansion."
Evidence Summary: Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. Scott had made more than a dozen trips to Puerto Rico, created programs to welcome islanders who fled their hurricane-ravaged island for Florida. “As a result, Democrats didn’t do as well as we would have liked in Florida, so there will be an important conversation, the beginning of several conversations of how we do better,” Alex said.

Claim: "Americans will spend more on taxes in 2015 than on food, clothing and housing combined."
Evidence Summary: In the summer of 2017, the budget office projected that the economy would grow by 2 percent in the 2018 fiscal year, and that personal, corporate and payroll taxes would add up to $3.24 trillion. Then the tax cuts passed, growth accelerated and tax revenues fell $183 billion — or 5.6 percent — short of that projection. Republicans, particularly in the Trump administration, sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself — even when economists outside the administration released models contradicting them.

Claim: "George Allen voted to end Pell Grants for 84,000 students."
Evidence Summary: Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. “You can get a lot of things solved when you have a barbecue sandwich with someone,” Michael Torrence, president of a community college in Lynchburg, says. The fate of 70 of President Donald Trump's judicial nominees is in limbo after McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer failed to agree on a way to move them forward at the close of the 115th Congress.

Claim: "Despite raising taxes on the wealthy and hiking the minimum wage, Minnesota is creating jobs at a record pace, unemployment is at a historic low, median income is skyrocketing, and (the) state has a billion-dollar surplus."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom’s new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. He vowed to be “prudent stewards of taxpayer dollars, pay down debt, and meet our future obligations.’ “We will build and safeguard the largest fiscal reserve of any state in American history. But let me be clear: We will be bold,’’ Newsom said in a speech on his fourth day on the job. “Any of those federal employees who are furloughed, come in and we’ll get you unemployment insurance.”

Claim: "Says Rick Scotts proposed budget would lay off 20,000 teachers."
Evidence Summary: The state of California spends comparatively little on education per pupil. The state's troubled Department of Child Services is seeking about two-thirds of that money to keep paying for hundreds of new child welfare caseworkers. The union has pointed to a nearly $2 billion reserve, which it says could be used to pay for more educators so that class sizes are significantly smaller and that all schools have full-time nurses, counselors and mental health professionals. But Mr. Beutner has said the district is already spending far more than it brings in.

Claim: [State Rep. Doug McKillips] donors deserve a refund.
Evidence Summary: Democratic political figures are facing pressure to return or redirect campaign contributions from Democratic megadonor Ed Buck. At least a half-dozen Democrats have announced plans to return the donations. But more than 15 elected officials serving in Congress or other offices, as well as former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former President Barack Obama, have yet to comment on the case or say if they will return money. Fox News has requested comment from former and current Democratic officeholders whose donor records indicate have received campaign money from Buck.

Claim: "SaysPresident Obama is using executive actions to impose gun control on the nation, targeting the top-selling rifle in the country ... with a ban on one of the most-used assault rifle bullets."
Evidence Summary: The gun industry had hoped that a host of gun rights would be enacted. The background checks measure is likely to face opposition from the Republican-controlled Senate and the White House. Gun-control advocates are rejoicing in the gun industry's misfortunes of late and chalking it up to a shift in elected political leaders. “Make no mistake, there are powerful forces arrayed against us,” said California Gov. Gavin Newsom in his inaugural address Monday.. The National Rifle Association said a federal background check did not prevent Giffords' shooting.

Claim: "After hearing the frustrations parents and teachers have with the FCAT, next year we begin improving our testing system."
Evidence Summary: "Maybe a student has test anxiety, or their dog died that day, but we still expect a 10-year-old to take a test and perform at their best," says Stacey Shaffer, 45, a fifth-grade English and language-arts teacher. "It's really easy to teach to the test, (but) that doesn't help the kids grow or be part of the community," says Cullen Murphy, 44, who teaches seventh-grade math and science at East Hills Middle School in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

Claim: "Every year tobacco kills more Americans than did World War II more than AIDS, cocaine, heroin, alcohol, vehicular accidents, homicide and suicide combined."
Evidence Summary: Tobacco control experts have found companies exaggerate smuggling evidence. The Food and Drug Administration is holding a public hearing Friday to solicit ideas on the best interventions to curb youth e-cigarette use. The US surgeon general, in a report which marked 50 years since it declared smoking causes lung cancer, described taxes as “one of the most powerful interventions we can make to prevent smoking and reduce prevalence” The World Bank, World Health Organization and US National Bureau of Economic Research all agree increasing tobacco taxes reduces smoking.

Claim: "We borrow $4 billion every single day, much of it from China."
Evidence Summary: China’s net spending on foreign services, mostly tourism, surged from $50 billion to more than $80 billion over the same period. Beijing is no longer buying dollars to keep mushrooming trade earnings from pushing up the yuan, but rather the opposite. The more the US president fulminates about China selling the US far more than it buys, the more it seems to go against him. By the end of last year, China exported $324bn more in goods and services to the US than it imported.

Claim: "There are 3.6 million jobs sitting vacant, in part because there arent enough qualified applicants to fill them."
Evidence Summary: For all occupations, U.S. employers last month added a seasonally adjusted 312,000 new jobs. The unemployment rate inched up to 3.9%, from 3.7%, as more workers entered the workforce. That compares with a year-end unemployment rate in IT of 2.1%, CompTIA estimates. In a recent survey of more than 2,800 IT hiring decision makers, 63% told staffing firm that their company is planning to expand tech teams in the year ahead.

Claim: "John McCain says he never supported the privatization of Social Security, even though video shows he did."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all” these days. To succeed, to succeed, those Democrats still have a lot of work to do. Back to Mail Online home.back to the page you came from.

Claim: "Because of (U.S. Sen.-elect Ron) Johnsons leadership, Senate Republicans adopted a caucus ban on earmarks."
Evidence Summary: New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo wants to make Election Day a holiday. The FBI is investigating fake text messages sent to some House Republican lawmakers from someone impersonating a top aide to Vice President Mike Pence. A proposed visit by a sanctioned Russian official to the U.S. has been postponed indefinitely. The House of Representatives passed two spending bills on Thursday night to reopen the government. The Senate failed to advance a bill that would ban any federal funding of abortion or help fund insurance that covers abortion costs.

Claim: "Every dropout costs us $72,000 for the life of that person."
Evidence Summary: The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960. Georgia State University generates more than $3 million in tuition and fees for every 1 percentage point increase in students who stay enrolled. Arizona State University, one of the nation’s largest universities, offers an advanced online adviser system that requires students to take courses early on deemed diagnostic for success in the major they’re pursuing. While richer California students are keeping up with their peers, lower-income students are as much as one grade behind the national average.

Claim: "Most Americans want traditional marriage, as defined by the Defense of Marriage Act."
Evidence Summary: On the issue of same-sex unions, Clinton signed the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996 that defined marriage as a union between one man and one woman. Since the 1990s both those issues, once held out as signature “liberal” causes, have become very mainstream, according to Gallup. In 1995, only 25 percent of Americans thought marijuana use should be made legal; in 2018 the number was 66 percent – a 41-point jump. In 1996, only 27 percent of. Americans thought that same- sex marriages should be recognized by law; in2018 the number. was 68 percent – an increase of 41 points.

Claim: "In 2012, 1 in 4 Wisconsin schools had a subpar score on the Department of Public Instructions recent report cards and are failing the children they serve."
Evidence Summary: New York officials released a list of 245 of the state’s lowest-performing schools Thursday. Eighty-four are in New York City, which, like urban districts across the nation, has long struggled to turn around its most troubled schools. “We want our schools to improve and we’ll do anything we can to help,” said New York Education Commissioner MaryEllen Elia. The number of black teachers in Chicago Public Schools declined to 21 percent, while the number of students of color grew to 84%.

Claim: "We spent approximately $20-billion of that money on pork barrel, earmark projects. Maybe if we had done it right, maybe some of that money would have gone to inspect those bridges and other bridges across the country."
Evidence Summary: In his address to the nation Tuesday, Trump said the steel fence design is "what our professionals at the border want and need. This is just common sense." As a candidate, Trump promised to build an "impenetrable, physical, tall, powerful, beautiful" wall on the border that would be paid for by Mexico. Before the Oval Office address, the White House's Office of Management and Budget sent a letter to Congress requesting $5.7 billion for the construction of 234 miles of steel barrier.

Claim: "NAFTA, supported by the Secretary (Clinton), cost us 800,000 jobs nationwide."
Evidence Summary: Lori Wallach, director at Public Citizen’s Global Trade, explains how their critique of corporate-rigged trade policies managed to align in some surprising ways with the president's trade nationalist agenda. Wallach: While some of these big companies have done quite well under the agreement, not only has the U.S. lost almost a million jobs with more being outsourced to Mexico every week and our wages flat, but workers in Mexico, their real wages are down relative to before NAFTA.

Claim: "Cuba wants to let the Chinese drill in some of the very parts of the gulf that American producers are currently forbidden to touch, as close as 45 miles off the Florida coast."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump's Cuba policy is driving millions of dollars from the island's private entrepreneurs to its state-run tourism sector. Cuban government figures from the first full year under Trump’s policy show occupancy of private bed-and-breakfasts in Havana plunged to 44 percent in 2018. Trump announced in June 2017 that he was tightening limits on U.S. travel to Cuba in order to starve military-linked travel businesses and funnel money directly to the Cuban people. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories.

Claim: On running for Senate if Jim Webb retires.
Evidence Summary: Retired Army paratrooper Richard Ojeda formalized his campaign for the presidency on Veterans Day 2018. West Virginia lawmaker Richard Scholten announced he was going to resign his state Senate seat on Jan. 12 to focus on campaigning for president in 2020. Former Democratic senator Jim Webb, a former Navy secretary under Republican President Ronald Reagan, is being considered to be the next defense secretary, the New York Times reported. The Times said Vice President Mike Pence and acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney had reached out to Webb.

Claim: "Democratic Reps. Cicilline, Boswell, Carnahan and Critz demanded that Congress vote to increase the nations debt limit without making any spending cuts."
Evidence Summary: The Democratic majority poised to take control of the House has plans to make it easier to raise the federal borrowing limit. In recent years, down-to-the-wire negotiations on Capitol Hill over the debt ceiling have raised concerns that the U.S. could default on its debt, alarming investors. Democrats are hoping to avoid such showdowns. The statement continued: "Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic leaders of the most powerful Congressional Committees are going to decide whether progressives or corporate-backed centrists will represent us in the fight for social justice"

Claim: "Last year, I was involved with an effort to to help prosecutors get their first pay raise in more than 10 years."
Evidence Summary: O'Connor: "The idea that I’d be forced to work without a paycheck or the ability to provide to my family was unthinkable to me when I made that decision to work here" He and his wife delivered an entire truckload of donated food to their office last night for an FBI employee in need. "Police and prosecutors have been getting increasingly savvy and creative and aggressive about going after older sex crimes and cover-ups than ever before," O'Connor said. "I accepted this position because I wanted to serve the cause of justice instead of clients.”

Claim: "When you look at the number of crashes before the cameras were installed compared to after, theyre virtually the same."
Evidence Summary: In 2016, 37,461 people died in motor vehicle crashes, up from 32,744 in 2014. Automakers are “struggling to find a balance” between what consumers want in cars and what technology to include, Cicchino said. “The technology may be smarter but not always safer,” he said. At the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, consumers can expect to hear how automakers are loading up their vehicles with sensors, cameras, radar and other technologies.

Claim: "We do not have an overcrowding problem. As a matter of fact, Rhode Island has one of the lowest incarceration rates in the country."
Evidence Summary: "You don't have to fan the flames of hysteria to fix an immigration system," says mayor. "Prison capacities are set for a reason. Staff need to work in a safe environment," he adds. "A healthy community must have housing that is within the economic reach of every part of the community," he says. "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes," adds the councillor. 'We have about 13 million people in this country who are here, in one form or another, illegally - visa overstays or what have you,' says the mayor.

Claim: "Rather than work to secure the border, (Marco Rubio) supported Obamas amnesty plan for illegal immigrants."
Evidence Summary: "We all agree on the need to better secure the border and to punish employers who choose to hire illegal immigrants," Obama said. "There is no way in hell that caging babies is a smart or a right or good way to do it," he added. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio said Trump made "a very reasonable offer" and urged Democrats to work with him. "We say no to scapegoating immigrants, and yes to 'Dreamers,' yes to keeping families together," Rubio said.

Claim: "Fifty years ago, the average GM employee could pay for a year of a son or daughters college tuition on just two weeks wages."
Evidence Summary: In 1966, the federal minimum wage was $1.25/hour. At 40 hours a week, 50 weeks a year, the annual wage would equal $2,500. "We need to get back to a place in this 21st Century where that is true. The economy works for everybody," says CNN's John Sutter. "When I was a kid, a minimum-wage job in America would support a family of three," says Sen. Elizabeth Warren. "It's been a long fight with the schools and with getting everything to where it is," says Richard Marsh.

Claim: "On average, college students are taking six years to get a four-year degree."
Evidence Summary: In the decades-long push to open college doors wide, an unintended casualty has been the college dropout. The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960, with an estimated 20 percent of working adults having some college credits, but no degree. Just 22 percent of the high school graduates who enrolled in Tennessee Promise in 2015 had graduated two years later. Just 13 percent of community college students nationally graduate in two years, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.

Claim: "When it comes to being effective at creating jobs (Chris Christie has not had) a record of governing for effectiveness. ... Last year, New Jersey created no net new jobs."
Evidence Summary: Christie was unceremoniously dumped from the Trump transition team in the immediate aftermath of the 2016 election. He says he turned down numerous roles in the administration but was frustrated in not being offered vice-president or attorney general. Christie said Trump has a “revolving door of deeply flawed individuals” working in his administration in another excerpt from the book, due out Jan 29, that was released last week. Christie is the former governor of New Jersey and author of Let Me Finish: Trump, the Kushners, Bannon, New Jersey, and the Power of In-Your-Face Politics.

Claim: "If the Supreme Court throws out the federal health care law, it would be an unprecedented, extraordinary step of overturning a law that was passed by a strong majority of a democratically elected Congress."
Evidence Summary: Texas federal judge put on hold his earlier ruling stating that Congress rendered the ACA unconstitutional by zeroing out the individual mandate in 2017. Judge Reed O’Connor devoted 30 pages (and 78 footnotes) to a gratuitous reiteration of his first decision. Democratic lawmakers have already announced plans to appeal Judge O'Connor’s ruling that the Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional, and the Fort Worth judge has agreed to stay his own ruling pending appeal, a reprieve that will keep the law intact for now.

Claim: "Says the State Department spent $630,000 to get 2 million Facebook Likes."
Evidence Summary: One network of 364 pages and accounts was linked to employees of Sputnik. About 790,000 accounts followed one or more of the network's pages. Another network spent $25,000 on ads in 2018, paid for in rubles. Facebook shared its findings with U.S. law enforcement, the U.s. Congress and other technology companies. The company hopes to immediately help support “local journalists and newsrooms with their newsgathering needs” and assist local news organizations.

Claim: "Says his office has already recovered over $2 billion from Wall Street for the workers, retirees, and investors who were harmed."
Evidence Summary: In 2017, the stock market rose 25 percent, and Trump sent no fewer than 32 separate tweets bragging about its awesomeness. The Dow had increased 149 percent during President Barack Obama’s eight years in office, but Trump insisted he deserved the credit for a spectacular turnaround. In two weeks, Trump heads to Davos as the leader of a country where the government has shut down. His party suffered a bruising defeat in the elections, ceding power in the House of Representatives.

Claim: "Says Gov. Scott Walkers proposed reduction in university spending is about the size of the one under Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle, but Democrats didnt treat Doyles cut as so dire."
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom could be California’s most progressive governor ever. Some Illinois legislators of both parties have been exploring an ambitious restructuring. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor who stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. The first budget proposals by the new Democratic governor of California, Gavin Newsom, include six months of paid parental leave, two years of free community college and greater healthcare access for undocumented immigrants. The state-appointed fact-finder supported both claims, and both sides have pointed to the report to bolster their arguments.

Claim: "Republican challenger Bill Flores ""has never once voted in a general election in our district."""
Evidence Summary: The electoral board also overruled Martinez’s argument that Russell inconsistently identified the office being sought. Early and by-mail voting begins Jan. 17 for the Feb. 26 primary. The primary winner would go on to face independent Alicia Giles and Jose L. Guzman's father, who joined the race as an independent. The electoral board voted at a Dec. 7 meeting that Guzman’'s petitions did not meet the state's election requirement that the petition papers be securely bound.

Claim: "Says that when he first ran for office in the late 1980s, there were still folks who didnt have phone service. Soon Id helped ensure that everyone in North Florida could access a dial tone."
Evidence Summary: Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis is making a mark quickly in his first few days in office. He is moving the state Supreme Court to the right, unveiling a wide-ranging environmental plan. He may take action against the sheriff who oversaw the response to the Parkland school shooting. Mr. deSantis rode to power as an acolyte of President Trump and overcame his Democratic opponent in the general election by a wafer-thin margin. He takes the helm of the nation’s largest...

Claim: "During my administration, funding for education has increased by over $930 million."
Evidence Summary: Illinois higher ed’s idea of reinventing itself for the present and future doesn’t go much beyond asking for, yes, more money from taxpayers. Witness IBHE chairman Tom Cross’ call for “reinvestment in higher education.” “I’m not against taxes and funding our schools as that is our future,” said Oswego resident John Secor. “We need the government to start focusing on our education," said Aurora resident Jan Pietka.

Claim: "As a legislator, (Marco Rubio) flipped on a key vote after making a quick $200,000 from selling the house to the mother of the bills lobbyist."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand: "He is my best friend, as I know I am to him, and he is a ‘mensch’ He claims that I’m an angel and I say he is the ‘wind beneath my wings’ In any case, we are on a magnificent flight together’ Miriam turns out to be far wealthier than her husband, who was ranked #21 on the Forbes 2018 billionaire ranking. "I think you do need to get money out of politics," Gillibrand said. "... Today, the wealthiest, most powerful lobbyists and special interest groups get to write bills in the dead of night"

Claim: The new Hartsfield-Jackson international terminal was on time and on budget.
Evidence Summary: Security lanes at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport were closed Monday due to staffing shortages. The security checkpoint at Terminal B in Houston's George Bush Intercontinental Airport was also closed. The CTA on Friday morning plans to open the northern terminal of the 95th Street Red Line station. The $280 million project replaces the original 50-year-old rail and bus terminal at the southern end of the Red Line, which runs along the Dan Ryan Expressway. The station, one of the busiest on the CTA system, serves 20,000 daily commuters.

Claim: "Scott Walker has given a $10,000 tax deduction to millionaires who send their kids to exclusive private schools."
Evidence Summary: Scott Walker tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: Sheldon Whitehouse and 18 other senators voted to censor the internet.
Evidence Summary: Eight House Republicans have voted for all three bills: Reps. John Katko and Elise Stefanik of New York, Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania and Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler of Washington. Four Democrats joined Republicans in supporting the bill: Doug Jones of Alabama, Joe Manchin of West Virginia, Bob Menendez of New Jersey and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona. 11 GOP senators voted alongside all Democrats present to proceed with the resolution, which was introduced by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-New York.

Claim: "I was among the earliest to criticize the rush to war (in Iraq), and yes, even before the war ever started."
Evidence Summary: The President continues to insist he is America’s “favorite President.” The lies continue. — Bishop Talbert Swan (@TalbertSwan) January 19, 2019You mean the same @newtgingrich who called President Obama in 2016 the "the first anti-American president." — (((DeanObeidallah))) (@DeanO beidallah) January 20, 2019It took America 240 years to become the guiding light of the world. It took you only 2 years to destroy everything.

Claim: The cost ofa gas tank fill-up has risen$30 sinceBarack Obama became president.
Evidence Summary: An oversupply of oil on the world market has triggered a steady slide in gas prices, bringing Americans some of the cheapest gas in years as 2019 kicked off. Nationally, regular was averaging around $2.25 per gallon at the start of January — the lowest price for this time of year since 2016, according to AAA. Just last summer, gas prices were at four-year highs. But recently, at a Costco gas station in Washington, D.C., Sylvie Tiadem was delighted that it only cost her $26 to fill up.

Claim: "Obama said troops ""whine about bearing the costs"" of going to war."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Trump ridiculed other nations’ commitment of troops to fight alongside America’s in Afghanistan. "Our troops have done all we have asked them to do and more," then-Sen. Obama once said. "No amount of American soldiers can solve the political differences at the heart of somebody else's civil war, nor settle the grievances in the hearts of the combatants," Mr. Trump said. For years we've had leaders who promised to end America's costly wars, only to cave in to the establishment view.

Claim: "Says Barack Obama said, If we keep talking about the economy, were going to lose."
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Growth is slowing down in spite of a $1.5 trillion tax cut that is blowing up the deficit while help ing companies like Goldman Sachs. In the span of a year of SurveyMonkey polling, Mr. Trump has lost much of the approval he enjoyed with Americans on economic policy. Nearly as many respondents now say his policies are making the economy worse as say they are making it better.

Claim: "With the auto rescue, President Barack Obama saved more than 1 million middle-class jobs all across America, including more than 28,000 in Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: Over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. Even wages are starting to increase with a 3.2 increase in (hourly) wages. But even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’

Claim: "In June, jobless ranks were higher in nearly 90 percent of U.S. cities."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The monthly jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains, and African-Americans, whose jobless rate has reached record lows.

Claim: "We could save all the oil that they're talking about getting off drilling, if everybody was just inflating their tires and getting regular tune-ups."
Evidence Summary: "We will do whatever’s necessary to keep food on the table and gas in the cars," he said. "Let's see who gets tired first: Those who steal the fuel or us," he added. "Oil changes, it's heavy work.” “You have to do what it takes to support yourselves and your families,” he told the crowd. “We know that climate change is largely man made, and we need to do our part to fight it."

Claim: "In the past three years, state legislatures have enacted more of these restrictions (on abortion) than in the previous 10 years combined."
Evidence Summary: Last year was the first time in recent years that steps protecting abortion rights outnumbered restrictions. In 2018 alone, 15 states adopted 27 new limits on abortion and family planning. With both sides of the debate energized by the reshuffled political landscape, 2019 is poised to be a landmark year for abortion-related legislation. For now, conservatives still have a president in the White House who has shown an uncharacteristically steady commitment to limiting abortion rights. But progressives are increasingly matching or exceeding their fervent commitment to reproductive issues.

Claim: "He (Obama) has done several things well. Most of those things are places where he changed his view from where he had during the campaign. So, for instance, he's left our troops in Iraq and they're being more successful there. He boosted our effort in Afghanistan, which is the right course to take. He did not close Guantanamo, thank heavens."
Evidence Summary: "Our troops have done all we have asked them to do and more," then-Sen. Obama once said. In June 4, 2009, Obama spoke about stopping the U.S. use of torture and closing the Guantanamo Bay military prison. In Pompeo's view, Obama's speech heralded an era of timidity, wishful thinking, and what he called "willful blindness" "I applaud the president for re-evaluating what he's doing," Pompeo said.

Claim: "In Senate Bill 5, there is this new method of evaluating teachers. Youre also going to be rated on what the parents think of you and they can send questionnaires and surveys home to parents."
Evidence Summary: Teachers overwhelmingly see public schools as worth the tax money that funds them, 78 percent to 19 percent. Today's teachers say the public schools are doing a better job of educating students than they did 10 years ago. The New York Legislature overwhelmingly passed a bill Wednesday to scrap a mandate for districts to rate teachers partly by students' scores on state tests. The poll is part of a USA TODAY project through the 2018-19 school year that is exploring the profession of teaching in an era of evolving challenges.

Claim: "Says that while President Barack Obama promised to work with your employer to lower your premiums by $2,500 per family per year, his health care law raises premiums in the individual market by $2,100 per family."
Evidence Summary: The roughly 1 percent increase could feed into the Democratic argument that the Trump administration is trying to "sabotage" coverage for millions. The administration said the proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. President Trump, who once predicted "Obamacare" would "implode" or "explode," took credit for calm insurance markets in his first year in office.

Claim: "Twenty-seven out-of-state pharmaceutical companies have raised more campaign dollars (against a drug price control measure) than all other state ballot measures have raised to date, combined."
Evidence Summary: Major pharmaceutical companies injected more than $34m into patient advocacy groups in four years. The largest amount of money was sent to groups representing cancer, eye health and nervous system disorder patients. Health spending in the U.S. is the highest in the world, totaling $3.3 trillion in 2016, or 17.8 percent of the gross domestic product. The House Committee on Oversight and Reform sent letters to 12 drug companies to try to determine why prices have risen “so dramatically”

Claim: "As part of efforts to rein in protesters, Republicans in Wisconsin have bolted windows inside the Capitol shut."
Evidence Summary: The longest government shutdown in U.S. history has hung over the opening weeks of the 116th Congress. For many freshman lawmakers of both political parties it has served as a stark introduction to the Washington dysfunction many of them vowed to shake up. “This is about my ninth day in the job, and one thing I’ve figured out is exactly what I campaigned on: Washington is pretty broken,” said freshman Sen. Rick Scott (R., Fla.) on Thursday.

Claim: "If you ask how many times did Ronald Reagan attend a fundraiser when he ran for re-election in 1984, the answer is eight times. If you say how many times did Barack Obama attend a fundraiser in 2012, the answer is 228 times."
Evidence Summary: President Obama gave remarks from the most famous office in Washington just three times. While President Bill Clinton used the venue 15 times, President George W. Bush delivered speeches there six times. In 1984, President Reagan laid the blame on what he saw as intransigent House Democrats. Mitt Romney, who ran for the presidency twice, is horrified that American voters elected Donald Trump. There are reasons why many Republicans are wary of too close an association with the president, and Romney’s op-ed detailed many of those.

Claim: "The Senate version of the economic stimulus package includes ""millions of dollars to World War II Filipino veterans in the Philippines."""
Evidence Summary: Puerto Rican officials in the U.S. and the island — from both sides of the political spectrum — blasted the administration over the possibility. “It would be appalling for the President to take money from places like Puerto Rico that have suffered enormous catastrophes, costing thousands of American citizens lives, in order to pay for Donald Trump’s foolish, offensive and hateful wall,” said Rep. Nydia Velázquez, D-N.Y. Democrats have crafted a $12.1 billion package to help rebuild California, which suffered its deadliest wildfire season ever in 2018.

Claim: "Says Anthropology is a STEM (science, technology, engineering, math) field."
Evidence Summary: The number of women earning degrees in science has risen since the late 1990s. Women still account for only about 20 percent of advanced degrees in physics. A 2017 report showed that women lag men significantly in obtaining degrees in mathematics, computer science and other fields known collectively as STEM. The organisers of a major Indian science conference said they were concerned by speakers citing religious texts and ideas at the event. The Indian Scientific Congress Association expressed “serious concern” as the unorthodox remarks aired by prominent academics attracted condemnation and ridicule.

Claim: "When news broke that Ferguson 18-year-old Michael Brown was a suspect in a robbery, MSNBC practically went off the air for a while to have behind-closed-doors meetings to figure out how to deal with this new revelation."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post declared: “By any available measure, there is no new crisis at the border.” MSNBC agreed that calling illegal immigration a crisis was a “scam” San Diego’s KUSI-TV criticized CNN, saying the network had reached out for an interview about the border situation and then rejected the station because of its reporting. CNN, the station claimed, “didn’t like what they heard from us.’ In Florida, NBC executives, Republican lawmakers and Florida officials would say — and probably believe — all the right things if you asked about their commitment to racial justice.

Claim: "People ""can't go fishing anymore because of Obama."""
Evidence Summary: January marks the opening of a number of major fisheries in Alaska. Boats need federal permits and inspections before they can leave the docks. People working in the industry say they're not sure if or when boats will be able to get the needed authorizations. The federal government tightly regulates the cod and other fisheries in the Bering Sea, which has an annual catch valued at more than $1 billion.. The shutdown has put hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue at stake, experts say.

Claim: "When adjusted for inflation, (Texas) per-student spending has remained relatively flat over the past 16 years. Despite that trend, Texas schools in 2017 will receive $381 less per student than they did in 2003."
Evidence Summary: Beutner said if the district were to give the UTLA everything it wants, it would cost the district an extra $800 million a year. He said the state-appointed independent fact finder has told the school district that it has resources to invest $30 to $90 million more. Over the last decade, private university tuition and fees have shot up by 26 percent to about $35,000 a year, but the actual net cost is lower. Still, lower-income families feel the pinch because of rising inequality and stagnant wages.

Claim: "As Virginias governor, Allen cut spending and waste with bipartisan support."
Evidence Summary: John Avlon: California Gov. Newsom has a broader view of government than Gov. Brown. He says Newsom's agenda is likely to be costly and likely to face obstacles as he prepares to offer a new budget. Avlon says Gov. Rauner's refusal to negotiate a state budget shows he's a can-do leader who needs GOP leaders in Congress to actually get things done. The president needs an effective conservative leader who will not only support his agenda but actually get it done, he says.

Claim: "Protesters in La Crosse blocked an exit and surrounded a State Patrol car carrying the governor and were beating on the windows and rocking the vehicle. When the car was extricated from the crowd, a truck blocked a second exit."
Evidence Summary: Four demonstrators were killed by gunfire in the western city of Barinas. In the state capital, Thiruvananthapuram, police had to resort to tear gas and water cannons to control rioters. At least 12 police vehicles were attacked, and over 700 people were arrested on Wednesday and Thursday. “In the red-state rebellion, people were standing up and fighting against the pro-corporate policies of the GOP. In LA, people are going to be standing up,” said Claycomb.

Claim: "Almost half a million people are still eligible (for DACA), particularly in the Asian-American and Pacific Islander community."
Evidence Summary: The Obama administration deferred penalties against the DACA population contrary to the law by halting deportations and other legal action. About 800,000 people applied for deferred action. Under DACA, an applicant gets to commit up to two crimes before being found ineligible—not including the illegal entry. Under the Obama DACA, only the “children’s” who arrived prior to 2012 were eligible. But illegal immigrants have continued bringing children into the country since 2012. They're going to lose their legal status soon. He's willing to extend that.

Claim: "The pastor McCain calls his 'spiritual guide,' Rod Parsley, believes America's founding mission is to destroy Islam, which he calls a 'false religion.' "
Evidence Summary: The identification of the 45th president with an ancient Middle Eastern potentate isn’t a fringe thing. “The Trump Prophecy” was produced with the help of professors and students at Liberty University. A lot of attention has been paid to the supposed paradox of evangelicals backing such an imperfect man. But the real problem is that our idea of Christian nationalism hasn't caught up with the reality. He told you that 9/11 led my country to abandon its ideals, particularly in the Middle East. The results of these misjudgments have been dire.

Claim: "First, Donald Trump said wages are too high, and both Donald Trump and Mike Pence think we ought to eliminate the federal minimum wage."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi cast Trump, the wealthy son of a real-estate developer, as insensitive to the plight of government workers. Trump said some "serious talks" toward ending the shutdown will take place early this week. The president added that he is "totally involved" in shutdown negotiations, saying the standoff could end "in 20 minutes" Vice President Mike Pence said Republicans "of course" remain willing to negotiate further on the border funding compromise proposed by President Trump on Saturday. "There will be no deal without a wall," Pence said.

Claim: Dan Gelbers employment by BPs law firm could disqualify him from representing Florida against BP as Attorney General.
Evidence Summary: Barr said he discussed the Mueller probe with Trump “but not in any particular substance,” and volunteered to detail his conversations. He added that in June 2017, he was approached by David Friedman, who now serves as ambassador to Israel, about the possibility of personal representation to "augment" Trump’s defense team. Barr said that he hadn’t researched the emoluments clause, the constitutional provision which forbids government officials from accepting payments and gifts from foreign governments. The Republican attorney will now oversee the 2020 elections in one of Florida's most Democratic-leaning counties.

Claim: I was never against same-sex marriage.
Evidence Summary: In years past, Gabbard referred to gay activists as “homosexual extremists.” Her father was known at the time as Hawaii’s leading opponent of the gay-rights movement. In 2004, she spearheaded a fight in the state against a same-sex union measure. She has apologized for her previous comments, but has come under renewed criticism since she announced she would run for president. She explained that she grew up in a conservative household and was raised to believe that marriage was between a man and woman.

Claim: "Small businesses that have $250,000 in gross sales for the business. Theyre the ones that are looking at massive tax increases."
Evidence Summary: We have corporations - multinational corporations - that are hardly paying anything in federal taxes. I think that we can consider different ways, different proposals, to be able to raise more revenue from the wealthiest corporations. I also think it's interesting, Margaret, you know, that I'm here in a neighborhood that was built up like a not- a lot of neighborhoods by small businesses. And at the same time, that a company like Amazon, that is one of the biggest companies in the world, can get huge tax- tax breaks.

Claim: Michael Dukakis created jobs three times faster than Mitt Romney.
Evidence Summary: Presidential candidates from neighboring Massachusetts have a history of winning the first-in-the-nation primary. Think of Michael Dukakis in 1988, Mitt Romney in 2012, and Sanders in 2016. The last time big name candidates from Massachusetts and Vermont faced off in the New Hampshire primary was in 2004, when then-Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts topped second place finisher and former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean in a Democratic presidential contest that included seven candidates. But the ‘backyard advantage’ could also become burden, warned University of New Hampshire political science professor Dante Scala.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clintons rejection of efforts to make it easier to vote and harder to cheat not only defies logic, but the will of the majority of Americans."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand told a crowd on a frigid morning, she thinks she is the best candidate to help “reclaim our democracy” from Trump and corporate interests. “I’m going to run for president because I really believe that I will fight for your children as hard as I fight for my own,” Gillibrand said in an impassioned address. "This presidential election is going to be a reflection of the times, and there's going to been a lot of people who want their voice heard and that's what makes democracy, democracy," she said.

Claim: "Every time weve cut taxes, revenues have gone up, the economy has grown."
Evidence Summary: Republicans sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. The uncomfortable truth for the bill’s supporters is that the tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. The best-case scenario for proponents is that. the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth, which. in turn produces increasingly higher revenues several years down the road.

Claim: "Raising taxes on investment income has actually lowered the revenue received from the tax, while cutting capital gains tax rates has increased revenue."
Evidence Summary: In the summer of 2017, the budget office projected that the economy would grow by 2 percent in the 2018 fiscal year, and that personal, corporate and payroll taxes would add up to $3.24 trillion. Then the tax cuts passed, growth accelerated and tax revenues fell $183 billion — or 5.6 percent — short of that projection. As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself, because total tax revenues were very slightly up.

Claim: "Common welfare programs give income of $43,330 or $20.83 an hour."
Evidence Summary: The pay people take home after accounting for inflation fell 1.3 percent last year, a new analysis shows. That's concerning because it indicates more Americans are falling behind -- despite seeing the lowest U.S. unemployment rate in nearly 50 years. For many workers, $15 or even $20 an hour, at 40 or 50 hours a week, means couch-surfing. The findings come a year after President Donald Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, with his administration promising it would deliver "immediate" wage growth to workers.

Claim: "Says that Tim Pawlenty eliminated health insurance for 33,000 to 35,000 people when he was governor of Minnesota."
Evidence Summary: Before CHIP was enacted, the number of uninsured children in America was around 10 million. “This is an area the country has made enormous progress on, and it’s something we should all feel proud of — and Senator Hatch should too,” said Joan Alker, executive director of Georgetown University”s Center for Children and Families. The Department of Veterans Affairs is preparing to shift billions of dollars from government-run veterans’ hospitals to private health care providers.

Claim: "Says his deficit plan made some adjustments to (Simpson-Bowles), and were putting it forward before Congress right now, a $4 trillion plan."
Evidence Summary: Kelsey Snell: It's unclear exactly where the president - it sounds like the president would give on the 5 billion number. Mike Pence two weeks ago offered us $2.5 billion, within an hour the president said no, I won’t take that, it’s got to be $5.7 billion or nothing. SNELL: It is also important to point out that Nancy Pelosi's staff says that she hadn't spoken to the president since December 11 before yesterday.

Claim: "Thanks to actions by the Milwaukee County Board on the 2013 budget, the amount of county taxes on the average home in the city of Milwaukee would be a $19 decrease."
Evidence Summary: The 2010 bonds had been set to be paid off with the 2028 property tax levy. The refinancing plan would allow the district to pay off the debt three years earlier. The tax rate for bonds this past year was $1.58 per hundred dollars of assessed value. The current string of dark-store lawsuits alone would require it to refund about a tenth of its total property tax revenue this year, officials say. The district is currently allowed to levy up to $435,000 in property taxes for principal and interest payments.

Claim: "Eighty percent of those who have applied for licenses have no cancer, no Parkinsons disease or glaucoma. They have nothing you would associate [with] the use of medical marijuana."
Evidence Summary: Cannabis advocates appear unwilling to accept anything less than full national legalization of cannabis. They must downplay or hide the drug’s very real mental health risks, and overstate its potential medical benefits, to do so. More than 200 million Americans live in states that have legalized marijuana for medical or recreational use. The higher the use, the greater the risk of developing schizophrenia and other psychoses, according to the National Academy of Medicine's 2017 report on the health effects of marijuana.

Claim: "Says Sen. John McCain told dreamers that hell support the Dream Act, then he voted against it."
Evidence Summary: It matters what senators do and what they demand, much more so than what they tweet. Sen. McCain understood how to wield the immense power of the Senate’s advise-and-consent role better than anyone else. Once the Senate decides to abide by the terms of its previous agreement, President Trump will be forced to sign this legislation amidst plummeting approval ratings. He will then issue a rambling and fraudulent tweet boasting that the new spending bill funds his border wall. Sadly, this is a lie that his base is likely to believe.

Claim: "When Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid were created, Republicans stood on the sidelines"
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Americans like the idea of ‘Medicare-for-all,’ but support flips to disapproval if it would result in higher taxes or longer waits for care. 75 percent – including 64 percent of Republicans – favor allowing people who aren’t covered by their employer to buy insurance through their state’s Medicaid program. 74% – including 47 percent of GOP – favor a national government plan like Medicare that is open to anyone, but also would allow people to keep the coverage they have.

Claim: "Gun violence is by far the leading cause of death for young African American men, outstripping the next nine causes of death combined."
Evidence Summary: Carmen Pagan, 41, became an advocate against gun violence after her brother was shot to death. Her 13-year-old daughter designed a gun out of bullet casings on a canvas with the words: “Our zip codes define our life expectancy” There’s a gap of more than two decades between the part of the city with the lowest life expectancy, 64, and the highest, 87. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," says Pagan.

Claim: "Under Republican economic policies, the typical American family saw their incomes fall by about 6 percent."
Evidence Summary: In the 1940s and 1950s, a mix of government policy, union strength and conservative gender norms established a “family wage’ — an income level that enabled a single breadwinner to support a family. The average pretax income of the top 10th of Americans has doubled since 1980. The top 1% has more than tripled, and the top 0.001% has risen more than sevenfold. By a 6-point margin, voters say their family is better off than a year ago.

Claim: "Hillary interned with Bob Treuhaft, the head of the California Communist Party."
Evidence Summary: Anybody in Willie Brown’s orbit is considered part of the Willie Brown machine. Former San Francisco police chief was booed on her 100th day in office. A former U.S. Marine is accused of espionage by Russia and is in solitary confinement in Moscow's notorious Lefortovo Prison — long used by the K.G.B. New Jersey woman says her name was removed from a list of workers to be vetted by the Secret Service after she reminded management that she was unlawfully in the United States.

Claim: "Across the board, violent crime in jurisdictions that recognize the Right to Carry is lower than in areas that prevent it."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik’s commentary distorted a few facts, says Yvonne Smith. While firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, 60 percent were suicides, she says. In recent years, many states have relaxed their concealed carry laws, Smith says. But there is no credible evidence that permissive laws prevent or deter crime, she writes. It makes it harder for the police to know who is and who is not allowed to possess guns in public, she adds..

Claim: "Under Mayor Angel Taveras Providences bond rating was downgraded from A to BBB, two steps above junk-bond status."
Evidence Summary: The request is the board's first major move to slash some of the island's debt. If the judge nullifies the chunk of debt, some bondholders would loose their investments. For years, Puerto Rico — home to approximately 3.2 million U.S. citizens — has been plagued by economic woes, exacerbated by a worsening debt-crisis. Since its inception, the fiscal board has directed the local government to make budget cuts to several welfare and educational programs -- austerity measures that have become deeply unpopular on the island.

Claim: "Says using E-Verify is a fair amount of cost, about $20 per person that does not match."
Evidence Summary: An error allowed BBC News to see details of a stranger's credit report. The personal details, through credit scoring site ClearScore, were accessed by someone of the same name. Prof Alan Woodward, from the University of Surrey, said valuable data was being put at risk. Online services should use two-factor authentication - such as a code to a mobile phone - and ensure that applicants enter their email correctly twice to cut out mistakes. Banks are also being urged to find other ways to check a customer's identity.

Claim: "Wisconsin has created just under 100,000 jobs since he took office."
Evidence Summary: Regardless of what Walker does next, he leaves the governor's office having fundamentally altered the state. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn factory. Critics say Foxconn won't deliver on its promises and that the $3 billion Walker pledged to the company was too much. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people," Walker says.

Claim: "In New Jersey, Gov. Christie vetoed legislation to extend early voting."
Evidence Summary: A federal judge on Thursday struck down early-voting restrictions Wisconsin Republicans adopted in a December lame-duck legislative session. Republicans voted in December to limit in-person early voting to no more than two weeks before an election. The move came after a difficult midterm election in November, in which the overwhelmingly Democratic cities of Madison and Milwaukee held early voting for six weeks. Despite New York’s reputation as a Democratic bastion, states like California went much further in passing legislation to protect immigrants and the environment.

Claim: "Says federal regulations adopted in 2011 increased the cost of each vehicle for his business by $10,000."
Evidence Summary: Fiat Chrysler will be required to work with vendors of aftermarket catalytic converters to improve the efficiency of 200,000 converters. The Italian-American automaker is expected to spend more than $790 million to resolve cheating allegations involving 100,000 2014-16 Eco-diesel Ram 1500 pickups and Jeep Grand Cherokees. Researchers at West Virginia University's Center for Alternative Fuels, Engines and Emissions claim that certain diesel Ram pickup trucks pollute more than allowed by law.

Claim: "Even if you took literally every single ounce of platinum in the world, it still wouldnt add up to enough needed to pay down our nations debt."
Evidence Summary: "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he says. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" "I have the biggest anti-corruption proposals since Watergate," he adds. "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.” "You can talk yourself into a recession," he warns. "It is about money in politics, it's about the influence of money"

Claim: "Says under Oregon law, girls from 15 years of age and up are given complete control over whether to be sterilized or not."
Evidence Summary: The idea that limiting women's reproduction can cure society's ills has a long, shameful history in the U.S. Between 1909 and 1979, about 20,000 people were involuntarily sterilized in California. In the 1990s, multiple states proposed laws to incentivize or even require welfare recipients to use the new contraceptive Norplant. The UN has opposed their use in other parts of the world, calling for countries to offer more family planning and other support to address the root causes of abandonments.

Claim: "In Afghanistan ""the (military) leadership has proposed a new medal, an award for 'Courageous Restraint' ... for 'NOT FIRING BACK.' """
Evidence Summary: It was unclear how many of the dead were officers of the Afghan intelligence agency versus local militia members they were training. Afghan intelligence officers are better equipped and trained than the regular police and army, and their casualties have generally been lower than those of other forces. In recent years, as regular forces have been stretched by intensifying fighting across the country, intelligence officers have often found themselves operating like regular forces. U.S. commanders have said repeatedly that the losses being suffered by Afghan forces are “unsustainable”

Claim: "As unbelievable as it sounds, your tax dollars are funding the federal governments Zombie Apocalypse Plan. I kid you not."
Evidence Summary: "Whatever happens, I'm always going to know that fact. Even if I have to spend the rest of my life convincing the administration, or whoever comes next," he says. "This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for." "We need a federal law.” "We have to get together and work this out," he adds. "It's not just people who aren’t getting paychecks but also the businesses being hamstrung by this shutdown"

Claim: "When it comes to what little bit of job creation was happening in Massachusetts (when Mitt Romney was governor), it was happening in the public sector at six times the rate that it was happening in the private sector."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom's new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. The solutions cannot be limited to new revenue raised by expanded gambling and legalizing recreational marijuana. Employers want deeper workers’ compensation reform and property tax relief. The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done, Newsom says. The state of New York lost more residents than any other in the country in the past year. The U.S. Census Bureau says the state of California has the highest percentage of residents living in poverty.

Claim: Says former Sen. George Allen voted four times to raise his own pay.
Evidence Summary: New York Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie is piggybacking onto a lawsuit by a conservative legal group that is seeking to overturn the raise. The House Ethics Committee concluded that Rep. Thomas Garrett, who announced in May he would not run for re-election after reports surfaced that he and his wife used staff members to run errands and do chores for them, violated House ethics rules. Rep. Christian Mitchell, who sponsored the pay raise bill but will join the Pritzker administration soon, told a House panel the higher salaries were needed.

Claim: "Rhode Island has the second highest per enrollee (Medicaid) cost of any state in the country, which is 60 percent higher than the national average."
Evidence Summary: California, New York and Washington are among the states that embraced the Affordable Care Act. The uninsured rates in all three states are below the national average of 10 percent as of 2017. Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state’s voters. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage.

Claim: Says he fought Obama at the Supreme Court and won.
Evidence Summary: Supreme Court denied motion to take Whitaker's name off the case and also said it would not hear the Michaels gun case. A similar challenge to the Whitaker appointment is pending in federal court in Maryland. Trump hired President Obama's former solicitor general, Don Verrilli, to back that health care law. Trump’s approval ratings among his own party have largely hovered below Mr. Roberts' 5-4 vote to uphold most of the Affordable Care Act. But there are growing signs that Chief Justice Roberts has had a bellyful of Trump's antics.

Claim: "Says actor Dwayne The Rock Johnson wore a T-shirt stating: We Stand for the flag, we kneel for the fallen."
Evidence Summary: "We have made America great again," Gus Klein said Saturday afternoon to the crowd of about 75 people who turned out to watch the ceremony in Burlington's New North End neighborhood. A series of videos of the incident, which took place on Jan. 19, showed various sides of the story, with some showing one student appearing to smirk while standing facing a chanting Native American man. The students, many of whom were wearing the easily-identifiable "Make America Great Again" hats popularized by President Trump's campaign, have said that they were doing their own chants to drown out other protesters.

Claim: "There have been some estimates that if you deported everybody who is in Texas illegally, it would create an economic recession for the state."
Evidence Summary: The president “needs to create a sense of crisis to justify this costly boondoggle,” Sykes said. NBC reported Monday that according to statistics from the U.S. Department of Customs and Border Protection only six immigrants on a terror watchlist have been detained in six months at the Mexican border. “Are we really seriously now talking about the military coming in and enforcing eminent domain? Does the Republican Party really want to preside over soldiers taking away Americans’ private property?” Williams said.

Claim: "Ending federal funding for National Public Radio would jeopardize 9,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Original estimate that the partial shutdown would subtract 0.1 percentage point from growth every two weeks has now been doubled to a 0. 1 percentage point subtraction every week. With no deal to fund the government on the horizon, an estimated 800,000 federal employees likely won't get paid until late January. Trump has threatened to keep key agencies shuttered for months or even a year if Democrats don't agree to fund his desired border wall. He is considering declaring a national emergency to try to get it done without them.

Claim: "As a result of National Rifle Association and other private-sector (safety-education) programs, fatal firearms accidents are at the lowest level in 100 years."
Evidence Summary: Gun-related deaths topped nearly 40,000 in 2017 in the U.S., according to federal data. Guns in the home also heighten the risk of suicide, and accidental gun injuries and deaths. There are plenty of lawmakers who would likely oppose any new gun restrictions, but the NRA reserves its A-plus rating for its staunchest allies. The largest contributions include nearly $55,000 from the American Medical Association. The American College of Emergency Physicians gave $23,500.

Claim: "He's been endorsed by ""every major newspaper here in the state of Texas."""
Evidence Summary: Shahid Shafi won the support of Texas state Republicans including Gov. Greg Abbott, Sen. Ted Cruz and Land Commissioner George P. Bush. The Texas GOP executive committee has also rallied to Shafi's cause, passing a non-discrimination resolution that affirms and supports “all Americans’ right to practice their religion’ Shafi has been a part of the Tarrant County GOP for 10 years and is described as "a known commodity" by the county GOP chairman.

Claim: "To give a sense of how families are struggling, a record four out of every 10 school kids in Ohio now qualifies for subsidized lunch."
Evidence Summary: A third of college students don't always have enough food to eat, a new report finds. The Kiwanis program provides lunch money when the need arises, no questions asked. A school system in Maryland announced Thursday the creation of a fund that seeks to provide “a hot meal” for students in need during the ongoing partial government shutdown “and beyond” The fund has a goal to acquire enough money to pay for 10,000 meals, Dr. Monica Goldson, the interim chief executive officer, announced in a news release.

Claim: "Says Obama puts 15 unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats in charge of Medicare, who are required to cut Medicare ... that will lead to denied care for current seniors."
Evidence Summary: The popularity of Medicare for All soars when people hear it would guarantee health insurance as a right. But it becomes a political loser if people think it would lead to treatment delays. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. A new survey from the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation found broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care, including letting some people buy into Medicare or Medicaid.

Claim: "President Barack Obama has now spent three years proving that he kills jobs in energy, he kills jobs in manufacturing."
Evidence Summary: Over 4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump took office, with the lowest unemployment in half a century and earnings rising at the fastest rate in a decade. And the manufacturing industry has boomed after suffering for years. Last year was America's best manufacturing performance since 1997 - since before China joined the World Trade Organization and sucked all those jobs away. To stop the Democrats from turning populism into their winning message in 2020, President Trump needs to reclaim the mantle - and he's got a perfect opportunity in just a couple of weeks' time.

Claim: 95 percent of teachers and principals are not implicated in the [Atlanta Public Schools cheating scandal] report at all.
Evidence Summary: The College Board says close to 2,000 SAT students’ scores were flagged for further review. Another 1.9 million students in the class of 2018 took the ACT, the SAT’s main competitor. The ACT doesn’t release statistics about flagged scores, but its policies and procedures regarding testing irregularities are similar to those of the SAT. Neither ACT nor SAT needs hard evidence that a student has cheated to cancel a student”s scores. There is no evidence that the websites were deliberately targeted in a cyber attack.

Claim: "A study from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard, and Dartmouth concluded that Medicaids value to its beneficiaries is significantly lower than the actual cost of the program."
Evidence Summary: A study released in July said Ocasio-Cortez's proposed 'Medicare for all' solution would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years. A vote against the Democratic Rules package is a vote to let Mick Mulvaney make across-the-board cuts, Pelosi's deputy chief of staff tweeted. The Trump administration is quietly devising a plan bypassing Congress to give block grants to states for Medicaid, achieving a longstanding conservative dream on the health care safety net for the poor.

Claim: Says Sen. Ted Cruz used to be in favor of birthright citizenship but is now against it.
Evidence Summary: Ted Cruz said Democrats are holding federal workers hostage by not ending the shutdown and refusing to vote on issues that they’ve moved on in the past. “Here’s the ridiculous thing about the position of Senate Democrats,” the Texas Republican said. Cruz was responsible for a shutdown six years ago as he fought to defund Obamacare, sparking that Republican”s ire,’ Bennet said. "Because of the senator from Texas, this government was shut down, for politics," Bennet added.

Claim: "40,000 veterans in Texas wont get health care because Perry rejected Obamacares Medicaid expansion."
Evidence Summary: The Department of Veterans Affairs is preparing to shift billions of dollars from government-run veterans’ hospitals to private health care providers. Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state’s voters. 74 percent – including 47 percent of Republicans – favor a national government plan like Medicare that is open to anyone, but also would allow people to keep the coverage they have. The results come after a federal judge in Texas ruled in December that the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare, is invalid.

Claim: "U.S. unemployment among people ages 16 to 24 is 18.4 percent, which is a 60-year high."
Evidence Summary: Of the 2.9 million new jobs recorded by Labor's survey of households last year, 1.4 million were taken by people 55 and over. In December, 39.2 percent of Americans in that age group were working, the largest portion since 1961. The share of 55-to-64 year-olds in the workforce increased to 65.5% in December from 64.5 percent a year earlier. And the portion of 65-and-older Americans in the labor force averaged 19.6% last year.

Claim: "What do Rutgers University, Kean University, Montclair State University, New Jersey City University, Stockton College, Rowan University and William Paterson all have in common? They all graduate less than 50 percent of their students within four years."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education. Education is supposed to be a ladder to prosperity, but in the decades-long push to open college doors wide, an unintended casualty has been the college dropout. The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960. The U.S. Department of Education defines “graduation rates” as the percentage of first-time, full-time undergraduates who obtain a degree within six years.

Claim: "Opponent Holly Benson said that Just because youre poor doesnt mean youre unhealthy, it just means you have a lot more time to go running."
Evidence Summary: "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself," she said. "I'm going to fight for other people’s kids as hard as I would fight for my own," she added. Gillibrand: "I believe that anybody who wants to work hard enough should be able to get whatever job training they need to earn their way into the middle class" She said it's hard to be a woman running for president: "You gotta thread the needle"

Claim: "The average (public school) teacher in Wisconsins making $89,000 a year in salary and benefits."
Evidence Summary: Teachers earn between $44,000 and $86,000 a year depending on their education and experience. The district says the average teacher salary is $75,000, which reflects the older, more experienced workforce. The union argues that the district is hoarding reserves of $1.8 billion that could be used to fund the pay and staffing hikes. In a national USA TODAY/Ipsos Poll last September, Americans by a similar 59 percent to 34 percent said teachers weren't paid what they're worth.

Claim: "(Chris Christie) has not paid one dollar of state money into our pension system, and then states that the system is broke."
Evidence Summary: Illinois has a $7.4 billion pile of unpaid bills. Rebuilding roads and bridges will cost money. Payments for state worker and teacher retirements keeps going up. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy took aim at a business incentive program he said was rigged to work for a favored few.

Claim: "Under Republican Chris Christie, New Jersey had the highest increase in unemployment in the country last year. Nearly 1 in 10 jobless. The worst unemployment in the region. Near the bottom in economic growth, yet Christie protected a tax cut for millionaires but vetoed a minimum wage hike."
Evidence Summary: Phil Murphy headed into his second year in office redeclaring his campaign pledge to make New Jersey fairer for the middle class. Mr. Murphy, a Democrat, spent a large portion of his state-of-the-state address criticizing New Jersey’s corporate tax-incentive programs. “No one working a full-time job should ever live in poverty. Putting the minimum wage on a clear and responsible path to $15/hour is good for workers, good for our businesses, and good for the economy," he said.

Claim: The Obama administration called Bashar Assad a reformer when he was turning his Russian-provided guns on his own people.
Evidence Summary: President Obama failed to carry out his promise to punish the Syrian regime for the atrocities it imposed on its citizens. As a political decision, he was able to claim that keeping out of the fight was correct. But on a humanitarian level, how many hundreds of people were killed by Assad's forces? Obama was hardly “timid” about asserting U.S. power in Syria, he sent about 35,000 additional American troops to Afghanistan and authorized a new counterinsurgency strategy.

Claim: "On the day the House voted on the climate change bill, there was not even a copy of the bill in the well of the House, which is standard. It wasnt even written."
Evidence Summary: Sanders said the attention should be on pressing matters like the ongoing partial federal government shutdown over funding for Trump's proposed border wall. In the middle of his speech, Sanders called on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) directly, saying, “let’s vote to end the shutdown now in a bipartisan way” Sanders stopped short of denouncing the president's repeated statements that call the science behind global warming into question. But as he gears up for a second White House bid, the senator is making climate change a central focus of his campaign.

Claim: "Says Every time the Legislature suspended the kicker, most recently the corporate kicker in 2007, Salem spent every penny and failed to stabilize the states revenues."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials. A political group in one town spent hundreds of dollars on booze. In another town, a mayor’s campaign fund paid thousands of dollars to a village employee. After the reviews, Kovarik said this is the first time she and her staff recall a need for an objections hearing, and she added it was perhaps a display of the nation's party struggles.

Claim: "Wisconsin ranks No. 2 in economic growth, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia."
Evidence Summary: Milwaukee has served as home to some of the country's biggest brewers, including Pabst, Schlitz, Miller and Blatz. The Princeton Review in 2017 rated the University of Wisconsin-Madison as the school with the most beer. And last year the U.S. Centers for Disease Control released a survey in which one in four Wisconsin respondents reported binge-drinking at least once in the past month. Along with all the drinking has come carnage on the roads. The state ranks 20th in population but has landed among the top 15 states for drunken-driving arrests every year from 2005 through 2017.

Claim: "When we lower tax rates, we generate more in revenues. That happened in 86 with the Reagan plan, happened in 2001, following the Bush plan."
Evidence Summary: "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he says. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" "The American people are very conservative in the sense of not wanting radical change quickly," he adds. "We're not talking about make America great again; we're great now," he concludes. "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done"

Claim: "The state of Wisconsin pays plumbers, engineers and other attorneys much, much more than it pays attorneys to represent poor people."
Evidence Summary: Many jobs pay men more than they pay women for the same amount of work. Women of color get paid even less, when compared to all men. Many aldermen in fact work for the city full time and find their six-figure public salaries sufficient. Many low-wage and immigrant workers are paid only a fraction of what they’re owed, or are not paid at all for their work. Perhaps allowing Chicago alderman to pocket outside income enables the city to pay them less, but it's no bargain for taxpayers.

Claim: "Under President Bush in eight years, we added $4.9 trillion to the debt. Under President Obama, weve added $5.3 trillion to the debt in the 3.5 years hes been in office."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The notion that debt doesn’t matter, which is gaining some currency on the left, is wrong. The long-term costs of Medicare, for example, continue to be a real problem in this country. The Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026.

Claim: Gov. Rick Scotts sale of the state planes was not proper.
Evidence Summary: Croatia's prime minister said Zagreb would not accept any other deal but the original Israeli offer which it accepted last March. Croatian media reported the problem arose as the planes have been refitted with Israeli technology, depriving U.S. defense companies the chance to update and service the planes. A photograph of Davis in the first class section of the plane made it into Politico’s Playbook PM newsletter on Tuesday. A House ethics officer said the upgrade is not a violation of anti-corruption rules.

Claim: Weve seen a remarkable reduction in the number of Americans being executed -- its down nearly two-thirds over the past generation.
Evidence Summary: In the four decades since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled capital punishment was constitutional in 1976, Tennessee only executed six men. Now, in a matter of four months, three people have been executed, two by electrocution. Three more executions are scheduled in 2019, and another three in 2020. Six in 42 years; nine in less than three years. I have spoken out against the death penalty in sermons and conversations. This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.

Claim: Q: What do these Patriotic Americans have in common? A: They are all Draft Dodgers.
Evidence Summary: Military recruiters have struggled to compete in a growing U.S. economy. Only about 30 percent of 17- to 24-year-olds meet the physical, mental and moral requirements for the military. Only one in eight is interested in serving, according to the New York Times. The Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled Veterans of America and Vietnam Veterans have avoided endorsing or condemning either party. The group is tackling several issues regarding non-citizens, the military and veterans and support for bipartisan immigration reform.

Claim: "Outside of recall elections, theres never been a public official removed from office in Wisconsin for anything but malfeasance in office."
Evidence Summary: Just eight years ago, the college dropout rose to the highest elected office in Wisconsin. Two years later, following massive protests over his bill going after public sector unions, he became the first governor in U.S. history to defeat a recall election. Through it all, Walker stands by his record. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said.

Claim: "Half of all Americans have less than $10,000 in their savings account."
Evidence Summary: Survey found that only 40 percent of Americans could use their savings to pay for a $1,000 unexpected expense. More than 110,000 Americans earn less than $50,000 a year. A range of factors account for the dearth of savings, including weak wage growth going back decades, volatility in worker pay, and rising cost of things like housing, education and health care. "All this has combined to form a perfect storm to leave millions of Americans high and dry when it comes to financial stability," said Scott Astrada, director of federal advocacy at the Center for Responsible Lending.

Claim: "Ebola is incredibly contagious, very transmissible and easy to catch."
Evidence Summary: This is the first time that a vaccine for prevention and therapeutic treatments is available for use in an Ebola outbreak. The vaccine, which was developed by American pharmaceutical company Merck, has proved effective against the country's previous outbreak in the western province of Equateur. More than 50,000 people have received an experimental vaccine. Already, 385 people have been killed in the outbreak of Ebola in east Congo that began six months ago. The death rate in this epidemic - by far the biggest Congo has seen, and the world’s second largest in history - is more than 60 percent.

Claim: "In 2010, Betty Sutton voted to destroy Medicare."
Evidence Summary: The Kaiser Family Foundation found broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. The idea of creating a single national health insurance program for all Americans has been a big topic of political conversation since 2016. The Medicare-for-all plan pushed by Sanders would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years, according to a study released over the summer.

Claim: The turnout on May 14th was just 7 percent -- the lowest turnout in decades.
Evidence Summary: Stoke-on-Trent Central had the lowest turnout in the country in the 2015 general election, at 49.9%, falling to 38.2% in a byelection two years later. “I think it took them by surprise and if there was another vote it would fail. They seem to be making a right hash of it,” said one resident. The teenage survivors of the shooting that killed 17 last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School rallied hundreds of thousands to march.

Claim: "Obama ""has no experience or background at all in national security affairs."""
Evidence Summary: Trump boasted that the program would “shield every city in the United States’ He also spent an unseemly amount of time berating Democrats in Congress for not funding his wall on the southern border. Never in history has a U.S. president been so reckless, so heartless and so clueless, says Julian Zelizer. Zelizer: The contention that Trump really has been reined in, until now, by wiser, more experienced advisers is itself questionable. The replacement foreign policy crew shares a startling ignorance of the world beyond America, he says.

Claim: "Says Scott Bruun still believes in the same old direction that George Bush had before, which is to privatize Social Security."
Evidence Summary: Rightwing, anti-government forces which first took root in the GOP more than 40 years ago are now in full bloom and Trump is their willing avatar. Republican party leaders have long talked about slashing the size of government, reducing the social safety net, and privatizing whatever they can. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence.

Claim: "Mike Huckabee ""supported taxpayer-funded scholarships for illegal aliens."""
Evidence Summary: The FEC complaint last fall alleged that since the Families and Teachers for Antonio payment didn’t come from the candidate or candidate’s committee, it was not legal under the 2004 FEC advisory opinion. “It would have to buy 1,000 copies of his recent memoir for distribution to the audience. There would be no insertion of the word ‘former’ before ‘vice president’ in social media promotions. And the speaking fee would be $100,000,’ it was explained, for colleges and universities.”

Claim: "For every 33 pregnant women that walk into a Planned Parenthood clinic, 32 receive an abortion."
Evidence Summary: In 1972, the year before Roe v. Wade, 39 women in the United States died from illegal abortions, and almost as many, 24, died from legal abortions. Nearly a million abortions are committed every year in America, and more than a third are committed by Planned Parenthood. A Des Moines Register/Mediacom Iowa Poll last fall showed 52 percent of Iowans believed the so-called "heartbeat" law goes too far, while 39 percent thought it was appropriate. The messages all read, "I had an abortion," before ending with "and I am not ashamed" or "and it was just health care"

Claim: "Virginia spends $400,000 on abstinence programs while losing $2.5 million in federal funds due to Gov. Bob McDonnells political agenda."
Evidence Summary: Democrats are aiming to take control of the state legislature this coming November. Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product. It ranks 26th in income equality, according to the American Community Survey. Republicans remain obsessed with former secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email system, insisting Team Clinton was not only stupid and careless (it was), but also criminal (despite the Justice Department concluding it wasn’t). Republicans will get to hear nonsensical GOP explanations of why its views on “makers” and “takers” were never intended to apply to incompetently-run Republican states.

Claim: "Says Roy Blunt secretly inserts language to benefit tobacco giant Philip Morris into a national security bill while Blunts girlfriend and son are lobbyists for the cigarette company, and just days earlier, 26 Philip Morris executives wrote checks to Blunt totaling $23,000."
Evidence Summary: Free-market groups on several continents are supporting cigarette manufacturers by taking positions or accepting donations. Major firms including Philip Morris International and British American Tobacco have made donations. Altria, the US maker of Marlboro cigarettes and donor to dozens of North American thinktanks, said: “Like most major corporations, Altria and its companies support and are members of policy-oriented organizations focused on issues that affect our business” The thinktank accepted donations from Philip Morris Singapore, Philip Morris Malaysia and Japan Tobacco International alongside money from the American, British and Canadian governments.

Claim: "We rank below Ethiopia, Im told, in terms of our exports per capita, well below any of the other developed countries we trade with, and well below China and (South) Korea."
Evidence Summary: Taiwan's embassy in eSwatini - the only one in Africa - politely declined interview requests. But its ambassador praised the bilateral ties between the two in a letter to the editor in the Times of Swaziland last September. In 2018 trade between the countries jumped 41% to reach nearly $10m (£7.8m). The fact that women account for half of Rwanda’s cabinet and 61% of its parliamentary seats gets an approving mention, along with statistics on poverty alleviation, primary school attendance, maternal mortality.

Claim: "Bill Heller raises taxes. Property taxes. Small business taxes. He even wants to tax the Internet. Mr. Heller said no to balancing the federal budget, that puts more debt on our kids."
Evidence Summary: "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," Schneider says. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he adds. Other issues discussed included gun violence, health care, separation of children from their parents at the southern border, infrastructure, net neutrality and allowing legal marijuana dispensaries to deposit money in federal banks. "The idea tonight is to educate the public more about what the single largest portion of their property taxes goes for," says Center for Tax and Budget Accountability's Ralph Martire.

Claim: "The U.S. spends $4 billion on research and development for energy, while spending $350 billion on oil from foreign countries, ""many of whom are our enemies."""
Evidence Summary: The last 15 years have ushered in an American energy renaissance. Our net energy imports have fallen a remarkable 95 percent since 2008. We're now the world's top producer of both natural gas and oil. That means the U.S. is now well on its way to achieving the once unthinkable: complete energy independence. It's astonishing that the UK government is still throwing taxpayers’ money at some of the world’s largest oil and gas companies, writes Julian Zelizer of the Center for American Progress.

Claim: "Says the state auditor found that 37 percent of the 428,000 students receiving free and reduced-price lunches are ineligible."
Evidence Summary: A third of college students don't always have enough food to eat, a new report says. The Government Accountability Office reviewed 31 studies on the topic of food insecurity on college campuses. The report concludes that the federal systems in place could do a better job of helping them. The USDA assures that school lunch programs have funding through the end of March. But the Vance County school system said it's trying "to conserve food and funding" in a district where most students come from families with incomes low enough to qualify.

Claim: "[My administration is] well represented both racially, ethnically and gender-wise."
Evidence Summary: The 116th Congress is the most diverse in U.S. history. But the physical presence of people of color in Congress does not automatically equal robust political advocacy. The kind of progressive, some might even say radical, changes that have been promised by some of this year’s new representatives are far from guaranteed. "I never called anyone racist, just inadequate," she added. "Also never called for strict quotas, just having representation of one of the most fundamental voting blocs in the American electorate."

Claim: "Site selectors who decide where businesses expand or relocate shun closed shop states like Wisconsin in favor of Right to Work states like Iowa, Indiana and Michigan."
Evidence Summary: He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. But to his detractors, Walker was bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama has allowed, each year hes been here, the prosecutions of gun cases (for background check failures) to go down. ... Theyve declined every year since President Bush left office."
Evidence Summary: Gunmakers and dealers gather this week in Las Vegas for the industry's largest annual conference. The industry was facing a so-called "Trump slump," a plummet in sales that happens amid gun rights-friendly administrations. Background checks were at an all-time high in 2016, President Barack Obama's last full year in office, numbering more than 27.5 million; since then, background checks have been at about 25 million each year. "Numbers are down," says Gary Ramey, owner of Georgian gunmaker Honor Defense.

Claim: Oregons budget has grown by 49 percent in just four years.
Evidence Summary: The economy is thought to have grown close to 3 percent last year, its best performance in more than a decade. The unemployment rate is 3.7 percent, a 49-year low. The Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate four times in 2018 but is only expected to raise it twice this year. The federal budget deficit continued to rise in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and is on pace to top $1 trillion for the year, as President Trump’s signature tax cuts continue to reduce corporate tax revenue.

Claim: "We've created or saved up to 1.6 million jobs, according to the CBO -- the Congressional Budget Office -- through the Recovery Act."
Evidence Summary: The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. Average monthly job creation for 2018 was 220,000. So far about 5m jobs have been created under Trump. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms.

Claim: "California Republican gubernatorial hopeful Meg Whitman ""contributed to, and campaigned, for"" Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer."
Evidence Summary: Kamala Harris has spent much of the past 25 years distancing herself from Gov. Jerry Brown. Brown launched the careers of Gavin Newsom, Mark Leno, and Ed Lee. When it came time for Harris to run for district attorney after a stint working in the city attorney’s office, she won. Underneath the bitterness is a begrudging respect for Harris' time as district attorney. The addition of lawmakers who shunned corporate campaign donations and have taken on their party's establishment is a major victory for progressives.

Claim: "Kasichs trade deals cost Ohio thousands of jobs - 49,000 jobs to Mexico, 91,000 to China."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. The only question for organized labor is whether Democrats will counter Trump’s efforts to reconfigure American trade relations with their own, more progressive form of trade populism or return to the more corporate-friendly, Clinton-Obama paradigm. It isn’t going to look like America being a sucker all the time anymore.

Claim: "Says with Jon Corzine, its the first time, I think, in history where a former Senator has been subpoenaed to testify before his former colleagues."
Evidence Summary: "The integrity of our process to serve as an independent check on the Executive Branch must be respected by everyone, including the President," Democratic chairmen Elijah Cummings, Adam Schiff and Jerrold Nadler said. Rep. Gerry Connolly, a senior Oversight panel member, said his party should go back and review how Congress protected witnesses during a series of sensitive hearings they had in the 1960s on organized crime and the mafia. “It’s not even a veiled attempt at intimidation of a witness and obstruction of the process of witnesses wanting to come forward to testify before the legislative branch of government,” the Virginia Democrat said Friday.

Claim: "We have seized more currency, more drugs, more outbound arms in the past year than any year in our countrys history."
Evidence Summary: "The Steel Barrier, or Wall, should have been built by previous administrations long ago. They never got it done - I will. Without it, our Country cannot be safe. Criminals, Gangs, Human Traffickers, Drugs & so much other big trouble can easily pour in. It can be stopped cold!" he said. "All these guys do is think and hatch plans and figure out how to get weapons. It's like a molotov cocktail waiting to explode."

Claim: "Theres never been a direct Supreme Court case on people who were here illegally, whether or not their kids are citizens."
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court hasn't acted on the immigration case, and an appellate court has since ruled on the issue. The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court to overturn up lower court judgments. The total number of children separated at the border is “unknown,” according to the report. The president falsely said that President Obama, when he signed the executive order to defer deportations for about 700,000 young immigrants, "admitted" that "this isn't going to work," John Eastman says.

Claim: "Traditionally, presidential candidates release their tax returns . . . Mitt Romney still wont."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney slammed President Trump in a Washington Post op-ed published Tuesday night. Trump responded on Twitter Wednesday, calling Romney a "mixed up man" who "doesn't have a clue" Romney was happy to accept Trump’s endorsements during his presidential run in 2012 and in his race for the Senate last year. The former Massachusetts governor has been prominent in national life for a quarter-century, and rarely during that time have people who know Romney raised their voices to say that the reality of his life is different than his Boy Scout image.

Claim: "In 1940, only 7 percentof Germans were Nazis."
Evidence Summary: This is more than previously calculated, and is a rate that surpasses recent genocides. 25 percent of all Holocaust victims were murdered from August to October 1942. Compared to the 1994 Rwanda genocide, the murder rate during those three months of the Holocaust was 83 percent higher. Study lead author Lewi Stone of Tel Aviv University used railway transportation records to reach his conclusions. The study, "Quantifying the Holocaust: Hyperintense kill rates during the Nazi genocide," was published in the peer-reviewed journal Science Advances.

Claim: "Under Scott Walkers tax plan, the average Wisconsin taxpayer got just $11 a month. But corporations got $610 million in tax cuts. Millionaires got at least $1,400 per year."
Evidence Summary: Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down. Walker compared the multimillionaires’ tax to taking money from fifth-graders after doing their chores, then referenced the fall of the Soviet Union as evidence that “socialism” doesn't work.

Claim: Just 400 Americans -- 400 -- have more wealth than half of all Americans combined.
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. Just 26 people owned the same amount of wealth as the poorest 3.8 billion people. The wealth of billionaires has increased by $900 billion in the last year, or $2.5 billion a day. The median Black family today owns $3,600 – just 2% of the $147,000 of wealth the median white family owns. In other words, the 1% are profiting off ongoing racial economic inequality.

Claim: Did you know Wisconsins AFSCME union has lost 50%+ of its members since no longer requiring membership?
Evidence Summary: Union membership in the U.S. continues to shrink, showing that organized labor still faces headwinds. Among American workers, participation in a union fell to 10.5 percent last year, from 10.7 percent in 2017 and 2016. Just 6.4 percent of private-sector workers belonged to a union last year (a slightly higher figure, 7.2 percent, were represented by unions but were not officially members.) Real estate firms, utilities and construction industry players saw drops in the rate of unionization.

Claim: "Says Joe Sestak voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors and jeopardizing access to care for millions."
Evidence Summary: A new survey finds broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. Critics, which include nearly all of the major veterans’ organizations, say that paying for care in the private sector would starve the 153-year-old vets’ health care system, causing many hospitals to close. The idea of creating a single national health insurance program for all Americans has been a big topic of political conversation since 2016.

Claim: "Democratic tax hikes led $70 billion of wealth to leave New Jersey between 2004 and 2008, and mainly relocate to Florida, North Carolina, Virginia and Pennsylvania."
Evidence Summary: The arrival last year of Mr. Carter and 14 other newly elected Democrats made it possible for Democrats to expand Medicaid. Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product, according to the Virginia Economic Development Partnership. Blue states like Connecticut, Illinois and New York with higher taxes and a higher cost of living are losing residents or gaining population at very low rates. No-income-tax states such as Florida, Nevada, Texas and Washington have grown at double-digit rates this decade.

Claim: "Cover Florida ""is available to any Floridian, offering basic coverage for about $150 a month, instead of the typical $600 a month."""
Evidence Summary: One month of SNAP benefits costs about $4.8 billion, however. USDA has declined to discuss other funding options that might be available if the shutdown is not resolved before it is time to pay out March benefits. The Florida House is also mulling a similar bill. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services. The insurance industry would be regulated to play a minor role in the system. The analysis focused on companies with annual revenues from $5 billion to more than $200 billion. It didn't assess whether these companies had adequate insurance coverage.

Claim: "When the presidents spokesman was asked about (Anwar) al-Awlakis son, he said he should have chosen a more responsible father."
Evidence Summary: "I actually think that there are times when maybe the best interest of your own kid isn't actually the best choice," Johnson said. "I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, or the sadness gripping their souls. How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?" Johnson also said that Trump, who he voted for, and regretted it, is "a dummy." He said his dad was a smart man, and thought JFK was a great man, but supported Republican values.

Claim: "In 1976, the first year that Pell Grants were fully funded, a full Pell Grant paid 72 percent of the cost of attendance at a typical four-year public college. Today, a full Pell Grant covers just 34 percent of those costs."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State's six-year graduation rate in 2018 was 55 percent, up from 48 percent in 2011. Nearly 60 percent of Georgia State’s students are eligible for Pell Grants, meaning many come from households making $40,000 or less. Tuition and fees at public and private schools rose at roughly three times the rate of inflation between 2007 and 2018, according to a College Board survey. The widening price difference between private and public colleges has "even wealthy families starting to ask why pay four times as much for private," researcher said.

Claim: "We have 17 intelligence agencies, civilian and military, who have all concluded that these espionage attacks, these cyberattacks, come from the highest levels of the Kremlin, and they are designed to influence our election."
Evidence Summary: Tom Nichols: Despite concerns about vote hacking in 2018, the midterms came and went without much cybersecurity fanfare. Nichols: The reports reveal how the Russian efforts go far beyond election interference. The real goal is outright sabotage by tearing apart America’s social fabric, he says. He says the president's supporters to double down in the face of mounting evidence that the president himself is, in some way, compromised by our most dedicated enemy is a road so dark that perhaps even Joseph McCarthy would not have dared walk it.

Claim: "In Buffalos SolarCity project, Andrew Cuomo will create maybe 500 jobs if it ever happens at all, at about $1.5 million per job."
Evidence Summary: New York state generates just 5 percent of its electricity from wind or solar. The New York City area consumes roughly 60 percent of all power in the state, but produces just 40 percent. The legislative push builds on high-profile efforts from other top City Hall officials. In November, he introduced legislation to cut emissions from buildings of more than 25,000 square feet by 80 percent by 2050. That would set what could be a new standard for cities around the world and form the backbone of what proponents have dubbed the 'Green New Deal for New York'

Claim: "Obama said his proposed $1,000 emergency energy rebate ""will be enough to offset the increased cost of gas for a working family over the next 4 months."""
Evidence Summary: Economists said energy bills and gasoline prices would rise at first, but they called on the government to return that tax revenue directly to American citizens. Both Republicans and Democrats on the Council of Economic Advisers signed the letter, including Greenspan, Paul Volcker, Ben Bernanke, Janet Yellen and more than two dozen other economists who have received the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. Despite the overwhelming support for the plan, it’s unlikely to be a top priority in the current White House administration.

Claim: "In states where beer is unregulated, the per capita production is significantly higher."
Evidence Summary: Milwaukee has served as home to some of the country's biggest brewers, including Pabst, Schlitz, Miller and Blatz. The Princeton Review in 2017 rated the University of Wisconsin-Madison as the school with the most beer. Last year the U.S. Centers for Disease Control released a survey in which one in four Wisconsin respondents reported binge-drinking at least once in the past month. The state ranks 20th in population but has landed among the top 15 states for drunken-driving arrests every year from 2005 through 2017.

Claim: "The average kid comes out of Virginia colleges with about $25,000-plus in debt."
Evidence Summary: Washington already owns or guarantees $1.4 trillion in student loan debt to nearly 43 million borrowers. Students are regularly taking more than four years to graduate. Only 44 percent of borrowers have repaid at least one dollar of principal within three years of beginning their payments. Just 59 percent of Americans finish a bachelor's degree program within six years at a public institution, and non-graduates are three times as likely to default. The Federal Reserve has linked rising student debt to a drop in homeownership among young Americans.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney told university students in Ohio that to start a business, they should borrow money if you have to from your parents."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has never sat behind the resolute desk in the Oval Office and he never will. Romney spent the bulk of his business career at a firm called Bain Capital. Bain Capital all but invented what is now a familiar business strategy: Take over an existing company for a short period of time, cut costs by firing employees, run up the debt, extract the wealth, and move on, sometimes leaving retirees without their earned pensions. Romney became fantastically rich doing this. Meanwhile, a remarkable number of the companies are now bankrupt or extinct.

Claim: "In the state of Indiana, Ive signed more than $3.5 billion in tax relief."
Evidence Summary: Eric Holcomb is looking to dip slightly into the state's reserves for more money toward a goal of boosting teacher pay. Holcomb used his State of the State speech Tuesday evening to announce plans to seek $140 million in the new two-year state budget. The Republican governor said 100 percent of that money should go toward teacher pay raises. “Look, are we going to disagree on some things? But I like to say that good ideas can come from anywhere,” Holcomb said.

Claim: "Mayor Giuliani made New York City what's known as a 'sanctuary city,' where illegal aliens were allowed to come. And he instructed the leaders of the city not to enforce the law, not to enforce immigration law."
Evidence Summary: “This is extreme even for Mayor de Blasio, because we know that he has socialist leanings, but this is straight communism and I think it’s very scary to America-loving, democracy-loving people.” “Health care is a right, not a privilege reserved for those who can afford it,” de Blasio said in a statement. “Any attempt to seize property will face a court challenge and the mayor himself comes up with these ideas, throws stuff out there and doesn’t know how he intends to make it happen,’ she said.

Claim: "Scott Walker couldnt get his own party to back more than a 500-student increase in Milwaukees school choice program, but in Indiana, Mitch Daniels voucher program is approaching 30,000 students two years after opening."
Evidence Summary: J.B. Pritzker will be Illinois' next governor-for-life. Bruce Rauner had the potential to write his name in state history next to Jim Thompson and Jim Edgar. He didn't come close to backing up his parting boast, "I’ll put our track record of accomplishment up against any governor in the U.S. in the last four years" Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power.

Claim: "Says a federal judge in San Antonio issued a ruling that not only could the students not pray at their graduation, if they used the word benediction, the word invocation, the word God, asked the audience to stand or asked for a moment of silence, he would put the superintendent in jail."
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court on Tuesday denied a petition from a Seattle-area high school coach who was fired for refusing to stop leading prayers on the field after games. A panel of 15 judges ruled 10-5 that the opening prayers at Rowan County meetings were “unconstitutional” The county decided to continue challenging the lawsuit until it had exhausted all legal avenues. The court refused to tackle a First Amendment dispute between a Washington State school district and a coach fired for praying in public with willing athletes. The lawsuit by Joseph Kennedy, a Bremerton High School coach, had argued that he was denied free speech rights.

Claim: "Obama ""shunned the opportunity to talk to soldiers to thank them for their service."""
Evidence Summary: Mr. Trump ridiculed other nations’ commitment of troops to fight alongside America’s in Afghanistan. “They tell me a hundred times, ‘Oh, we sent you soldiers. Now, I-- I don't know if any president has ever done this. None that has ever said, "I'm not givin' you anything,"” he said. Mr. Trump called the situation at the southern border both a "humanitarian crisis" and a "national security crisis"

Claim: "And while (Ted) Strickland proposed cuts for services for children, he wasted over $250,000 remodeling his bathrooms at the governors mansion."
Evidence Summary: Twitter users pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. The governor’s budget includes $500m to encourage local governments to build emergency shelters and navigation centers for the homeless, and $25m to assist homeless disabled individuals in applying for disability benefits. At times, Newsom flat-out challenged the president in his Thursday address, whether it was over the debunked claims about California's wildfire management, or individually mandated healthcare. Some are already speculating that Newsom may be the most progressive governor in state history.

Claim: "In Rhode Island, only 5 percent of ozone pollution is from local or in-state sources. . . Ninety-five percent comes from outside of our borders, particularly the Midwest."
Evidence Summary: The ultra-low emission zone will be the toughest emission standard adopted by any city in the world. The WHO's models indicate that around 92% of the world's population live in places where air quality levels exceed their guidelines. In the UK, more than 40 cities and towns were at, or have exceeded, the WHO limit. How polluted is your street? Enter a postcode to find out version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"? You You You you You You 1 2 3 4 5 6 Good Heavily Polluted

Claim: "The White House has ""refused"" international help in dealing with the oil spill."
Evidence Summary: Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Zanganeh said U.S. sanctions against his country were “fully illegal” He said Iran would not discuss the volume or destination of its oil exports. The White House adamantly denied the leak accusation, calling it a “flat out lie.” The failure to hold upcoming Gulf lease sales would “have a negative impact to the Treasury and negatively impact investment in the US Offshore Gulf of Mexico,” BOEM wrote in its updated plan.

Claim: The governor does not have any power to veto a referendum [on same-sex marriage] that would be a constitutional amendment.
Evidence Summary: There is already a dispute over how much of a say, if any, lawmakers should get in deciding how the constitutional amendment gets implemented. Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer signed a new directive prohibiting LGBTQ-based discrimination in state services or by state contractors. Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine, a Republican, signed an executive order prohibiting discrimination against LGBTQ state workers. Wisconsin, Ohio, Michigan, Kansas and Florida are among 29 states that do not have explicit laws banning employment discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.

Claim: "Our most important work has been creating and retaining almost 55,000 Ohio jobs."
Evidence Summary: "I am determined to ensure this progress will continue," he says. "We are a family," he adds. "I want to make sure that we don't lose each other in this process" "We need to work together to improve the quality of life for all of our people," he said. "It's not just about the economy, it's also about the health of the community," he added. "That's what we're trying to do here." "We're not just trying to make a point, we're also trying to help people in need," he insists.

Claim: "Roy Barnes is part of the team that has run up trillions of dollars in debt that Americans will spend years paying off, and theyve done it without creating one job."
Evidence Summary: "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," Jordan says. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he adds. "This president's probably been attacked more than any president that-- in my lifetime. And here's what I know.” "The government really needs to get together and work this out," he says.

Claim: "Says budget savings by reducing pay and benefits for federal employees total $103 billion over 10 years -- more than $50,000 per worker."
Evidence Summary: The Department of Transportation employs hundreds of clerical workers, who earn just under $60,000 per year. An analysis by Bloomberg News found the shutdown is costing contractors to lose a total of over $200 million a day — a hardship for mid-size companies and devastating for smaller outfits. According to the federal government, the the shutdown will cost at least $50 million per day in lost wages and productivity. The government shutdown has already cost federal contractors — and their employees — between $5 and $6 billion.

Claim: The citys 30 percent set aside for affordable housing in urban renewal areas is calculated citywide -- not district by district
Evidence Summary: Lake Forest ranked 27th with 5.3 percent of its housing fitting the definition. The 46 municipalities were notified Dec. 28 of the need to adopt and submit an affordable housing plan by June 28, 2020. A home or condominium was “affordable” if a buyer earning 80 percent of the area median income could make monthly payments on a 30-year, fixed rate mortgage without spending more than 30 percent of income on housing. Local property taxes were factored into the estimated payments, but homeowner insurance and homeowner association fees were excluded.

Claim: "She created the Waste, Fraud and Mismanagement Hotline.... (that) has saved Wisconsin taxpayers hundreds of thousands of dollars."
Evidence Summary: From 2002 to 2018, she raised $680m for Democrats. Her mentioned education funding as one of her top legislative priorities. The big items on her agenda: expanding Medicaid, boosting school funding and hiring more workers at...Just this past year, Mayor Melvin Carter had appointed Her as the city’s policy director. “I was really secure and happy in my job,” Her said. But Her also wanted more involvement in shaping the laws, she said. She said her experience working for St. Paul’S school board opened her eyes to the issues that needed to be addressed on the state level.

Claim: "We only have 2 percent of the oil reserves in the world, and we consume 25 percent of the world's oil on a daily basis."
Evidence Summary: "I don’t see peak [oil] demand happening in 10 years or even by 2040," Saudi Aramco CEO Amin Nasser told CNN Business' Emerging Markets Editor John Defterios. The kingdom is currently pumping about 10.5 million barrels of oil per day, down from 11 million in November. Together with its OPEC partners and Russia, it cut production recently in a bid to stabilize prices. U.S. crude production stood at a record 11.7 million barrels per day in late 2018, making America the world's biggest oil producer.

Claim: "Romneycare sent costs spiraling out of control in Massachusetts, hiking premiums, squeezing household budgets."
Evidence Summary: High premiums for people who earn too much to qualify for federal tax credits have been a problem on the health insurance exchanges. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014. Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state's voters. Gavin Newsom, California’s new governor, has proposed further action on health care, including a New Jersey-style state-level mandate and expanded subsidies for the middle class.

Claim: "Seneca Jones Timber Co., aiming to increase logging and allay fears that old growth will be cut, says mills have shifted to second-generation trees. An ad from the company asks: Do you know that most all mills in Oregon have retooled over the past 20 years?"
Evidence Summary: Only about 8,800 of the required 20,000 additional trees were planted in 2018. A soil conservation district refused to participate at all because it didn’t feel any of the 15 tree species identified in the settlement agreement were suitable. The agreement allows for the work to continue into 2019 if there are problems with the tree supply “or other market conditions” But the Labour-run authority said the city's current tree canopy cover was above the national average. In June, a Freedom of Information request submitted by The Sunday Times showed the council had felled almost 8,500 trees over the past three years.

Claim: "Members of Congress passed a pay raise for themselves of $10,000 over two years even as they voted not to raise Social Security benefits for 2010 and 2011."
Evidence Summary: The new committee is a victory for a cross-partisan coalition of outside advocacy groups and academics who have pressed Congress to fix itself for the past five years. The committee was approved in a separate floor vote by a 418-12 margin. The bill also ensures that minimum wage workers won’t be left to languish without raises in the future. It would effectively remove low-wage employees’ pay as a congressional bargaining chip, instead offering them the reassurance of regular raises. The Washington metropolitan area is home to the largest share of federal workers in the country – and on Friday many of them missed a paycheck for the first time since parts of the federal government ceased functioning on 22 December.

Claim: "She said, you know, 'I voted for it, but I hoped it wouldn't pass.' That was a quote on live TV."
Evidence Summary: The newly elected congresswoman from Michigan was recorded saying "we’re gonna go in there and we're gonna impeach the motherf-----!" On Tuesday, Tlaib was asked if she had any regrets about the comments. "I ran on that," she said. "It’s probably exactly how my grandmother, if she was alive, would say it" "I believe in America and I believe in our political system,” she added. “I believe we will right the wrong of the tyranny of Donald Trump.”

Claim: "The U.S. initially had three federal felonies: treason, piracy, and counterfeiting securities and money."
Evidence Summary: "An integral part of our history and progress as a nation is the ability to recognize past wrongs and atrocities, not excuse them," says David Plouffe. "There's a big difference between what the American people would be interested in and what’s a crime,’” Hemingway says. “The American people can be. interested in a lot of things people conceal that aren’t crimes. I am not an ethicist.” “I clicked on this and the reason why the fact checkers ding this Trump claim, which is true, ‘misleading’ is because, and I quote, “this figure includes all types of crimes,” he says. "The Constitution, as a founding document that influences every aspect of how we live, should not be interpreted as a whole," says Ben Crump.

Claim: "If you look at our tax mix, the share of corporate revenues as a percentage of our overall revenue mix has declined by about half over the last 30 years."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Sacconaghi says. Investors who hadn’t noticed the accounting rule change questioned why he marked down the $10.8 billion figure. "There was a lot of confusion, he said. “We did have investors calling us saying, ‘why did you write what you wrote?’” Some said the services business grew 28% in the first quarter from a year earlier.

Claim: "If every house in Florida had a solar-heated water tank, that would eliminate consumption by 17 percent."
Evidence Summary: Majik Water captures water from the air and converts it into drinking water using solar technology. The device could provide a solution for the 1.8 billion people predicted to have a shortage of water by 2025, according to the UN. There is little room for large-scale solar farms in some suburbs that have set lofty renewable energy goals, but they are seeking other ways to support solar energy. Some have sought to clear paths for small solar projects or arrays on home or business rooftops. Some are banking on subscriptions to installations outside their towns.

Claim: "The Koch brothers are the richest people in the world. Individually, theyre only fifth. Put them together theyre the richest in the world."
Evidence Summary: The Kochs pay for politicians in order to enrich themselves and to gut regulations affecting the polluting industries that made them billionaires. The progressive billionaires — Oprah Winfrey, Warren Buffett — are a different breed of fat cat. Last year, Tom Steyer spent more than $100 million of his own money helping Democrats get elected, and he says he will drop another bundle on Senate races in 2020. Look what he got for his Democratic House: new members calling for a 70 percent tax rate on earnings over $10 million.

Claim: "Shows in a television ad that police took evidence fromSolantic, Rick Scotts new health care company, after allegations emerged that the company was engaging in fraud."
Evidence Summary: The Department of Economic Security said it is working with the Phoenix Police Department on its investigation. Hacienda HealthCare issued a written statement through media spokesman David Leibowitz, calling the situation "unprecedented" Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton hailed the ruling, saying Planned Parenthood's "reprehensible conduct" proves that it is not a "qualified" provider under the Medicaid Act. The police have acknowledged they are working on the matter but have not commented further.. President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman shared campaign polling data with a Russian associate linked to Russian intelligence services, according to court papers filed Tuesday.

Claim: "Mexican government officials hand out brochures showing individuals how they can avoid our Border Patrol, how they can get into our country."
Evidence Summary: The White House is working to get the message out that terrorists are crossing the U.S.-Mexico border, but that’s not entirely true. Taken at face value, rhetoric from the White House and the Department of Homeland Security would lead Americans to believe that the United States is facing a terrorism crisis at our southern border. The picture being painted is one in which thousands of terrorists have been stopped from crossing the border to infiltrate the homeland. If that were true, that would indeed be a crisis.

Claim: "When Social Security started, age expectancy for the average man was 58. It was 62 -- 62 for women."
Evidence Summary: Since the financial crisis, older Americans have been increasingly staying in the workplace. Some see this as a positive trend, because it adds to the economy. But others rightfully view it with trepidation, because there's the distinct possibility that many of these elderly people just can't afford to retire. Women age 63 and up are projected to spend 30 percent more on health care in retirement than men. Women often can face a wealth gap, in part, because of family or life expectations set for women – ranging from parenting to care-giving duties.

Claim: "By fiscal year 2013, the state is expected to wipe through [HOPE scholarship] reserve funds."
Evidence Summary: Indiana has amassed a $1.8 billion reserve fund, but GOP leaders say significantly drawing that down would be fiscally irresponsible. The bill would be held for a few weeks for tinkering before it goes to a first hearing in committee, he said. The USDA said in a statement Thursday that officials "understand that the current lapse in appropriations creates uncertainty for the future" But the Vance County school system said it's trying "to conserve food and funding" in a district where most students come from low-income families.

Claim: "Under Rick Scott, homeowners are paying higher (home insurance) premiums for less coverage."
Evidence Summary: High premiums for people who earn too much to qualify for federal tax credits have been a problem on the health insurance exchanges since they began for the 2014 enrollment period. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014. Now that Democratic control has expanded, we can expect to see more of this kind of activism. Gavin Newsom, California’s new governor, has proposed further action on health care, including a New Jersey-style state-level mandate.

Claim: "For the first time in history, (Thors) hammer is being held by a woman."
Evidence Summary: A strength that comes from an ancient code of being a woman, and understanding that to be a woman is a gift. “I am eager to see how women use this historic moment to show the world that we can get along,” Nelson says. ‘It’s time for Oracle to do the right thing and stop treating women as second-class citizens,’ she says. 'We can lift one another as we climb,' she says, 'and we can do it together'

Claim: "(Koch Industries) is among the worst in toxic air pollution in the entire United States ... and churns out more climate-changing greenhouse gases than oil giants Chevron, Shell and Valero."
Evidence Summary: Ruben Navarrette: EPA chief Wheeler is a former coal lobbyist. He says the Kochs pay for politicians in order to enrich themselves and to gut regulations. The progressive billionaires — Oprah Winfrey, Warren Buffett — are a different breed of fat cat, he says. Navarrete: Trump and Wheeler are leading us — and the world — closer to mutually assured destruction. He asks: What will the world look like in 2019 if we don’t take action on climate change?

Claim: "Says Romney wants to take away early childhood education, slash K-12 funding, and cut college aid to pay for a $250,000 tax break for multi-millionaires."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote an op-ed piece praising President Trump's tax cuts. Romney has a history of flip-flopping on a wide variety of issues. The former Massachusetts governor has been prominent in national life for a quarter-century. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. He will speak out against "significant statements or actions that are divisive, racist, sexist, anti-immigrant, dishonest or destructive to democratic institutions"

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama came into office very concerned about wiretappings but then he became president of the United States, he got all the briefings (and) he decided the balance is probably pretty appropriately struck."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post has listed more than 7,000 presidential falsehoods. Post-truth politics can be highly effective, especially when it comes to shoring up a political base. The president has bluffed, bullied and wheedled his way into a very consequential moment, now we’ll find out what he wants to do with it. Enjoy a brief excerpt from a piece by the New Yorker’s Jake Halpern about the skilled climber and thief referred to as “Spider-Man” by the French press.

Claim: "During his tenure in Washington and in the Illinois State Senate, Barack Obama has accumulated a record of bipartisan success."
Evidence Summary: "I will do what it takes to get the job done," Obama says. "I will not give up," he adds. "We will get things done," he says of the Democratic Party. "It's time to get back to work" for the country, he says, "and not just for the sake of getting things done" "I'm not going to give up. I'm going to keep going," Obama adds, "even if it takes a little bit longer than expected"

Claim: "This year President Obama canceled the 21st annual National Day of Prayer ceremony at the White House under the ruse of not wanting to offend anyone.BUT on September 25, 2009 from 4 AM until 7 PM, a National Day of Prayer FOR THE MUSLIM RELIGION was HELD on Capitol Hill, Beside the White House."
Evidence Summary: The president's memorial visit had not been listed on his public schedule and reporters traveling with him were not informed of Trump's destination until they arrived. The president's schedule listed no public events to mark the federal holiday honoring King’s life, which had drawn criticism from civil rights activists. “This is an insult to the American people that the president of the United States does not officially recognize or give any ceremony for Dr. King,” the Rev. Al Sharpton said Monday morning.

Claim: Rhode Island has a [inmate] recidivism rate of over 60 percent.
Evidence Summary: A recent report estimates that former inmates are almost 10 times more likely to become homeless than the general population. “Just locking people up does not solve the problem,” says Terah Lawyer, the program coordinator. The study, which was published on Wednesday, used the home addresses of offenders to differentiate between Wales and England. It found a higher proportion of Wales’s overall population was in prison than England's for every year since 2013.“Wales being at the top of this league table is a source of great shame. Our national assembly for Wales should take control of our prison system," Lawyer says.

Claim: "Says former Clinton budget director Alice Rivlin said the stimulus bill ""won't actually stimulate the economy."""
Evidence Summary: Kevin Hassett, chair of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said the U.S. could see zero GDP growth. Most economists have said that government shutdowns only have temporary effects. Hassett continued to blame Democrats for the shutdown, which Trump said in December he would be “proud” to take the blame for. But some business executives and financial experts believe the shutdown could have long-lasting economic repercussions. The difficulty will be trying to ramp up consumer spending, they said.

Claim: "Tim Kaine doubled down in his support of devastating defense cuts, saying the the deal was the right thing to do."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., said Democrats are united behind reopening the government and then proceeding with negotiations on border security. "We want to discredit the use of government shutdown as a negotiating tactic," Kaine said. Kaine compared Trump's offer to "hostage taking" given that it was the president who rolled back protections for both DACA and TPS. "Now offering some temporary protections back in exchange for the wall is not a compromise — it's a hostage situation," he said.

Claim: On support for the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare).
Evidence Summary: A new poll shows how Americans feel about proposals to expand government-run health programs. A majority (56%) supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS], called Medicare-for-all. In those scenarios, people who do not get health insurance from an employer could buy health insurance through either Medicaid or Medicare. Two-thirds of Republicans and wide margins of Democrats and independents supported the proposals in the poll. The telephone poll was conducted Jan. 9-14 among 1,190 adults nationwide.

Claim: "Today, the United States is the most respected country on Earth."
Evidence Summary: “We’re the United States of America not the divided states of America,” Obama says. “Anyone who comes here must be subject to our laws and customs, and must sing our national anthem and respect our culture.” “Our motto is, ‘God above all things.’ ” ‘Our motto. is,’ Obama adds, “God above. all things’”“But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to," he says.

Claim: "Says in the governors proposed budget the use of that, what is called one-shots, is a 500 percent increase over the last Corzine budget."
Evidence Summary: Governor laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation. At one point, apparently speaking extemporaneously as he walked across a stage, Mr. Newsom offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. Many of Newsom’s budgetary priorities are solidly progressive. Of the $209-bn budget, 53% goes toward education, from kindergarten through public state-funded higher education, and 28% goes to health and human services.

Claim: "On Tim Kaine: In exchange for campaign contributions, he appointed a radical jihadi to the Virginia Immigration Commission."
Evidence Summary: A city commissioner from Florida is facing calls to resign for writing online that newly elected Michigan Rep. Rashida Tlaib was "a danger" and might "blow up Capitol Hill" The commissioner, Anabelle Lima-Taub, signed an online petition last week calling for TLAib's removal, according to a photo of her Facebook post published by The Sun Sentinel. Failed Virginia Senate candidate Corey Stewart announced that he would not seek another term as chairman of the Board of Supervisors of Prince William County.

Claim: "When we look at the number of murders in the United States (in) 2009, we had 9,500 people murdered. When we look around the world, we see ... large countries, the U.K., Germany, Japan had 200 or less killed in a year."
Evidence Summary: In Chicago, there were 561 homicides between Jan. 1 and Dec. 31, 2018. That’s a decline of about 100 murders compared to 2017. Meanwhile, as of about mid-December, New York reported 278 murders and Los Angeles had 243. The U.S. continues to lead the world in gun-related homicides at a rate four to 16 times higher than any other advanced nation. "We need to make short-term interventions and much more longer-term ones to try and understand the complexities as to why people get caught up in violence," he says.

Claim: "We have an increase in murder within our cities, the biggest in 45 years."
Evidence Summary: In Chicago, the nation's third largest city, there were 561 homicides between Jan. 1 and Dec. 31, 2018. That’s a decline of about 100 murders compared to 2017. Meanwhile, as of about mid-December, New York reported 278 murders and Los Angeles had 243. The Brennan Center for Justice estimates the 2018 overall murder rate in the country's 30 biggest cities declined by nearly 6 percent. Despite the general downward trend, some major cities including Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia saw significant increases in murders from last year.

Claim: "While the sequester is in effect, the federal government is still funding a study on duck penises."
Evidence Summary: FTC is reportedly weighing what kind of fine to impose on Facebook for privacy violations stemming from the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Angela K. Wilson explains how the shutdown is jeopardizing vital government-funded science research. April Glaser explains how antitrust oversight and legislation related to corporations like Facebook, Google, and Apple seems to be one of the few things lawmakers on both sides of the aisle in Congress can agree on. Aaron Mak looks into whether the #10YearChallenge could actually be used to improve facial recognition technology.

Claim: "President Obama's bill won't bring down the costs (of health care) for average Americans -- or really for very few Americans, if any."
Evidence Summary: “Young enrollees and those without chronic conditions were more likely to not purchase insurance if there had been no penalty,” the report says. “We urge the administration and Congress to reverse this alarming trend,’ the report adds. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes.

Claim: "The United States has more of our people in prison than Russia, China, and North Korea combined."
Evidence Summary: North Korea denies human rights abuses and says the issue is used by the international community as a political ploy to isolate it. Human rights were noticeably absent from talks between Kim and the leaders of South Korea and the United States last year. The United Nations has confirmed the continued use of political prison camps housing “thousands” of inmates, Quintana said, quoting one source as saying “the whole country is a prison” He said witnesses who recently left North Korea reported facing widespread discrimination, labor exploitation and corruption.

Claim: "As usual, Hillary the Dems are trying to rig the debates so 2 are up against major NFL games."
Evidence Summary: Democratic bigwigs try to head off headaches by announcing they will hold at least a dozen, beginning in June 2019. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejects the offer, calling it a non-starter. Plus, moving the goalposts on collusion with Russia. And how significant is Rudy Giuliani's new position on possible collusion?**Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up for the weekly Newsquiz here. Follow us on Twitter: @cnnfirecnn, @foxnews and @livesquiz.

Claim: A trade war is something very different (than curbing new trade agreements). We went down that road in the 1930s. It made the Great Depression longer and more painful.
Evidence Summary: The US says China's "unfair" trade practices have contributed to a lofty trade deficit. Like other countries in the West, it is also concerned about the risks that Chinese companies pose to their national security. Many increasingly see the trade war as a battle for global leadership between the world's two largest economies. Failure to achieve a deal could see both countries resume taxing one another's goods. President Trump has said he is ready to impose tariffs on the remaining $267bn (£209bn) of annual Chinese exports to the US.

Claim: Taxes went down under Jerry Brown.
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom's agenda is likely to be costly, and thus likely to face obstacles as the new governor prepares to offer a new budget. Mr. Brown, among others, has warned that California is heading into a recession, and there are concerns in the business community and among some moderate Democrats that the former San Francisco mayor might take a decidedly different approach to spending. Newsom also plans to increase subsidies for people who buy their own insurance, rather than getting it from an employer or government program. He also wants to expand the state’s paid leave program and eventually increase it to six months of leave split between parents.

Claim: "Bernie Sanders opposes the death penalty, and Hillary Clinton supports it."
Evidence Summary: Carrying the banner of law enforcement for Democrats is akin to entering a Republican primary with a resume advocating tax hikes. Both positions fly in the face of party orthodoxy, particularly among activists who decide primaries. For Harris, every case she was a part of as a prosecutor is about to be scrutinized. It will be Whac-A-Mole – every time a controversy erupts and is put out, another one will arise. But Warren wasn’t worried about the competition, saying “I think this is great”

Claim: "Palin supports ""aerial hunting of wolves and other wildlife."""
Evidence Summary: The latest data from the Federal Office for the Protection of Nature shows Germany has 73 packs of wolves, 13 more than a year earlier. For the first time, the southern state of Bavaria has its own pack. Agriculture Minister Julia Kloecker wrote last month to her counterpart in the environment ministry, Svenja Schulze, to lobby for a change in the rules to allow more wolves to be shot as part of a moderate regulation of the wolf population. It was unclear who would be licensed do to do the shooting. Federal and state laws prohibit lethal recourse against wolves.

Claim: It has been 269 days since (Hillary) Clinton has held a press conference.
Evidence Summary: Sarah Sanders has not briefed once yet in 2019, and has broken the previous White House time record for no press briefings set between Oct. 29 and Nov. 27 last year. This stretch comes amid an intense partial government shutdown, with no end in sight. The State Department plans to fly all of its ambassadors and other top diplomatic envoys from around the world into Washington next week. Most State Department employees have been furloughed or are working without pay since the shutdown began on Dec. 22.

Claim: About $4.89 billion in one-time money was used to balance the current state general revenue fund budget.
Evidence Summary: The budget deficit in the new fiscal year was projected at 7.7 billion dinars after accounting for a deposit of 10 percent of total revenue into the sovereign wealth fund. It isn't clear how much the $140 million could boost pay for the state's roughly 60,000 public schools teachers. The state’s budget projected 16.3 billion dinar in revenue, with non-oil revenue expected to rise by 5.4 percent compared to the current year's budget. It did not provide revenue figures for the current fiscal year.

Claim: "Says that under President John F. Kennedy, government took up 27 percent of the economy, and today it consumes 37 percent."
Evidence Summary: Under Reagan, America drastically ramped up defense spending in a successful bid to bring down the Soviet Union. Wall Street suffered its worst day ever under Reagan. The S&P 500 posted five separate years of double-digit growth on the Gipper’s watch, including a 26% spike in 1985. In 1980, a fifth-grader whose allowance was less than $44 a week would have owed no tax at all on the 10-spot grammy paid for doing chores. And he or she would have had to have a weekly stipend of more than $2,000 a week before the 70 percent rate kicked in.

Claim: We have no regulation of drones in the United States in their commercial use.
Evidence Summary: Regulators To Ease Restrictions On Drones, Clearing The Way For More Commercial Uses. Earlier this month, the U.S. Transportation Department proposed rules that would allow drones to operate over populated areas. There are nearly 1.3 million registered drones in the United States and more than 116,000 registered drone operators. But officials say there are hundreds of thousands of additional drones that are not registered. The changes could allow for drones to be used to survey construction sites and to deliver critical medical supplies to first responders.

Claim: "Geithner still didn't correct the same type of error for some years, even after the Internal Revenue Service flagged him for the failure to pay the taxes in other years."
Evidence Summary: Filing returns is the most direct way millions of Americans interact with the federal government. Each year, the IRS typically collects more than 150 million returns. Lawmakers have long been reluctant to mess with people’s refunds for fear of riling a vast swath of middle-class voters. “If you don’t pay refunds to people who are expecting them on a timely basis, all hell breaks loose,” said John Koskinen, who stepped down in 2017 as IRS commissioner.

Claim: "The American people have endured 21 consecutive months of 9% or higher unemployment [and] 2.6 million jobs have been lost, since the stimulus bill was signed."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "After the debate that we had last week, PolitiFact came out and said that everything I said was true."
Evidence Summary: A reporter for the Washington Post, which regularly publishes a fact-check column assigning “Pinocchios” based on the level of falsehood in statements made, hit back. "When does Politifact choose to rate true statements? I’d be happy to repost if there is.” Trump said that “Sen. Chuck Schumer, who you will be hearing from later tonight, has repeatedly supported a physical barrier in the past along with many other Democrats”

Claim: "A typical married couple will contribute $119,000 into Medicare but will receive $357,000 in Medicare benefits over their lifetimes."
Evidence Summary: The Medicare-for-all plan pushed by Sanders would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years. Only wealthier beneficiaries are paying the higher premiums right now, but proposals keep popping up that would require people with incomes as low as $40,000 to pay a larger share of their monthly premiums for Medicare. Good pension plans that would provide monthly payments in retirement have disappeared in favor of 401(k) plans, retirement savings plans that let workers save part of their paychecks before taxes are withheld.

Claim: "We have cut crime across every single zone in the city of Atlanta by between 10 percent and 16 percent, depending on the zone."
Evidence Summary: The department also recorded declines in shootings, robberies, burglaries, car thefts and car-jackings in 2018. Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson has previously said that “emboldened offenders who acted without a fear of penalty from the criminal justice system” were behind the 2016 crime spike. “I’m convinced this is a result of investments in new technology and a renewed commitment to community policing,” Johnson said. Barr said the crime rate has fallen substantially since he last last served as attorney general in 1992.

Claim: Theres talk in Congress now about basically confiscating your private 401(k) or IRA plan and rolling it into Social Security to strengthen Social Security.
Evidence Summary: As deficits balloon, GOP leaders suggest curbing the massive Social Security and Medicare programs. But the demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget, and the number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence.

Claim: "Opinion polls show that the majority of Americans, and the majority of New Jerseyans, favor marriage equality for same sex couples."
Evidence Summary: The poll found that 55 percent of Americans identify as pro-choice, up four percentage points from the previous year's survey. The same percentage of respondents said medical professionals with moral objections to abortion should be allowed to opt out of performing the procedure. Newsom first caught the attention of Americans in 2004 when he took a powerful and liberal stance on same-sex marriage. His role in this battle for equality for the LGBTQ community eventually led to nationwide legislation supporting same- sex marriage in 2015. The study also found majorities of nearly every major religious group in the U.S. now support legal protections against discrimination for LGBTQ Americans.

Claim: "832,000 people lost their job while (Charlie Crist was)governor."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor.

Claim: "Barack Obama said he would debate 'anywhere, anytime' but has rejected joint town hall meetings."
Evidence Summary: The former New York City mayor faced criticism from Democrats this week after defending the use of stop-and-frisk policing during a speech at the U.S. Conference of Mayors. Biden defended the speech, explaining that he was proud of Upton's work on a cancer research bill and argued that not everything should be viewed through the lens of partisanship. Bloomberg spoke at a National Action Network Martin Luther King Jr. Day breakfast in Washington on Monday, during which he joked he would ask former Vice President Joe Biden for tips on living in Washington.

Claim: "We just dont want to get to be like Louisiana, where you have drive-up daiquiri shops."
Evidence Summary: "We're not going to stop and just say, ‘Oh this is a cost of doing business,’” he says. “It has to encompass all parts of the country. We need the government to start focusing on our education.” “The thing that businesses hate is uncertainty, and we've got a ton of it," he adds. "They find it's the easiest place to come through. They drive right in and make a left. It's notGoing to happen."

Claim: Rhode Island has the worst maintained bridges in the United States of America . . . and we have the second worst maintained roads [behind] Alaska.
Evidence Summary: Railways, roads, bridges and fresh water arteries are on the verge of collapse. Crumbling bridges mean people’s lives are in danger. Deteriorating rail systems mean goods and services take longer to deliver and cost more. We are the nation's supply chain hub and we must be built like it. An aging highway system is not just concrete and steel. It's a longer commute home. South Dakota scored lowest in the group's rankings by implementing only two of the recommended laws. Rhode Island received the highest grade by implementing 13 of 16 laws.

Claim: On whether he would put a missile shield in Poland.
Evidence Summary: Trump administration released its new missile defense review. Review of the US missile defence strategy is bound to raise comparison with Reagan's abortive "Star Wars" programme of the early 1980s. At one point in his presentation, Donald Trump seemed to be echoing his predecessor, when he spoke of a missile defence programme that might "shield every city in the United States" It was hard to determine the exact direction of missile defence under his leadership other than that it is going to be bigger and better than before.

Claim: "Welcome to Wisconsin road signs have always been made in Wisconsin,but Scott Walker is outsourcing themto an out-of-state company and paying more money for them."
Evidence Summary: Walker signed into law a litany of Republican priorities. They include making Wisconsin a right-to-work state and requiring a photo ID to vote. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases. He worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in up to 13,000 new jobs and a $10 billion investment. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could," Walker says.

Claim: "Washington, D.C., now has greater population than Wyoming and Vermont, more active duty military than 29 states, more tax revenue than 29 states (and) a larger domestic product than 27 states."
Evidence Summary: The number of homicides in Washington, D.C., soared 38% last year, a setback in the capital’s safety record that defies the national trend of fewer murders. The district recorded 160 homicides in 2018, up from 116 a year earlier, police said. While violent crime overall fell 7%, authorities said an increase in the use of guns in crimes such as robbery and the growing lethality of shootings led to more homicides. Though he never uttered the words “state of resistance,’’ Newsom argued that too much is at stake not to resist the politics of Washington.

Claim: "Says in Canada, the number of CT scan machines per 1,000 people is like one-tenth of what we have here in this country. Thats why people have to wait."
Evidence Summary: The study didn’t distinguish between patients with and without symptoms. The results offer fresh evidence that the pivotal 2011 lung cancer trial done at academic medical centers may not reflect outcomes at community hospitals. “Complications from invasive chest procedures could actually happen more frequently in community practice,” says Dr. Dan Reuland of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine. Just 91.7% of patients see a specialist within two weeks in the eight months between April and November 2018.

Claim: On a timetable to withdraw from Iraq.
Evidence Summary: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo made an unannounced visit to Iraq on Wednesday to meet the country’s top leadership. The Iraq stop adds a ninth country to Mr. Pompeo's eight-day tour, his first to the Middle East after President Trump last month abruptly announced plans to withdraw troops from Syria. The mixed messages have created confusion over exactly what the U.S. policy is in Syria and the broader region — and that perception has persisted, despite State Department officials' insistence last week that "the United States is not leaving the Mideast"

Claim: "Says recent studies indicate that nationally, only 8 percent of white voting-age citizens but 25 percent of African-American voting-age citizens lack government-issued photo IDs."
Evidence Summary: The government has not asked about individuals' citizenship on the Census since 1950. The 18 states, 15 cities and various civil rights groups that filed a legal challenge against the administration said a citizenship question would frighten immigrants and Latinos into abstaining from the count. Non-citizens are estimated to represent about 7 percent of people living in the United States. But Furman’s ruling temporarily makes that question moot. The administration faces an early summer deadline for finalizing questions so questionnaires can be printed.

Claim: "When Deborah took office, the (Sellwood Bridge) project had languished for years, with only $11 million in funds. With her leadership the remaining funding was secured that got the project moving forward."
Evidence Summary: In the ’70s, Bernstein was part of a group of Chicago advocates, activists, and researchers. They caught the attention of Sen. Percy, who in 1978 appointed the Citizens’ Task Force on the Tunnel and Reservoir Plan. In December 1980, the committee released its report, arguing that the Deep Tunnel’s benefits had not been clearly defined, and would do little for Chicagoland homes if local bottlenecks were not cleared away. Just this past year, Mayor Melvin Carter had appointed Her as the city's policy director.

Claim: Hillary [Clinton] wants to raise taxes by over a trillion dollars.
Evidence Summary: A majority of voters support a proposal floated by U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to dramatically increase the highest tax rate on the wealthiest Americans to as high as 70 percent. The New York Democrat set off a nationwide debate with her comments on CBS's ‘60 Minutes’ that she would support the increase to fund her climate change plan. The proposed tax hike would affect those making $10 million or more, she said. The Democratic party platform calls for a tax on carbon dioxide, an energy tax.

Claim: "We are seeing dramatic rate cuts to Medicare that will affect seniors ability to keep their doctor, hospital and prevention services."
Evidence Summary: High deductibles, copayments, and treatments their insurance did not cover caused them to deplete their savings. “Most households with workers nearing retirement won’t be able to maintain their living standard in retirement,” says Teresa Ghilarducci, professor of economics and retirement at The New School in New York City. The 2020 Health Insurance Tax (HIT) would raise premiums or reduce benefits for seniors and low-income beneficiaries on Medicare Advantage. Delay the 2020 HIT now.

Claim: "As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, there were days where folks couldnt go outside. because of all the pollution in the air."
Evidence Summary: “It affects everything,” he says. “Wildlife, business, eco-tourism” He bought his father’s restaurant, the Fish Dock, and uses the menus to educate customers about local water testing results. Dr Zakiya Leggett is a forester and professor at North Carolina State University. She talks about her empathy for freshmen, many of whom tell her at the beginning of her class through a pre-course survey that they don’t believe in climate change.

Claim: "By one leading measure, what business owners pay out in wages and salaries is now finally growing faster than what they spend on health insurance for the first time in 17 years."
Evidence Summary: Recent data suggests that corporate titans as well as average Americans could be backtracking from the ebullience that characterized economic growth last year. An annual PwC survey of more than 1,300 global CEOs found that the number who expect economic growth to decline leaped from just 5 percent last year to 29 percent this year. In a 180-degree shift, within a few months after President Trump took office, we went from an economy where the biggest problem was workers being unable to find good paying jobs, to one where businesses are struggling to find employees.

Claim: "If someone is in a room that has measles and leaves and you walk in two hours later, you could get measles from that person."
Evidence Summary: More than a dozen unvaccinated children have been sickened by the measles virus in Washington’s Clark County. At least one case required hospitalization, as well as an additional suspected case. The health department identified several medical facilities, including PeaceHealth Urgent Care – Memorial, Magnolia Family Clinic, The Vancouver Clinic and other emergency rooms as potential locations of exposure. The department also said it's “requiring exclusion of students and staff without documented immunity to measles” at seven area schools.

Claim: "In 1972, we had a 179,000 human beings in jail in this country. Today, it's 2.3-million, and 70 percent of them are black, African-American."
Evidence Summary: William Barr was attorney general under President George H.W. Bush in the 1990s. He led the charge toward tightening the grip on young black men, a group perceived as "superpredators" Barr acknowledged that his policies created today's mass incarceration problem, but he failed to completely renounce them. “Racism and white supremacy are wicked. They’re incompatible with what we know to be true, that every person is made with untold dignity and value,” he said.

Claim: "While she was mayor, Lois Frankel took a police helicopter ride to go to a dinner party."
Evidence Summary: Blue Island Mayor Domingo Vargas is accused of stealing a pig. The pig was found and returned to its owner. Vargas' office says the pig was not stolen. The city is investigating the incident, according to a letter to the state’s attorney from Heuser. Heuser: Vargas often begins his day at City Hall before heading to work as a criminal defense attorney. The incident is being investigated by the state's attorney's office, Heuser says, but no charges have been filed yet.

Claim: "Says Texas lawmakers agreed to cut states rainy day fund in half, spending $4 billion from current $8 billion."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump reiterates his threat to declare a national emergency if Democrats refuse to cave to his demand for $5.7bn in funding for a border wall. The Texas Legislature is only at work for five months every two years, but reliably packs drama and spectacle into such a short amount of time. As the partial government shutdown drags on, more people, organizations and entire state governments are feeling the pain. In today's podcast, Lauren Gambino and Bryan Mealer report on how Trump’s core campaign pledge has led to this moment of political paralysis.

Claim: "We balanced the budget with the 1997 Balanced Budget Act, and ultimately had four consecutive balanced budgets."
Evidence Summary: In 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson asked Congress to impose a surcharge on both corporate and individual income taxes. President Clinton, a southern Democrat, said he was committed to a balanced budget. The two sides couldn't agree on whose long-term budget projections to use. The White House wanted to use data from its Office of Management and Budget. Republicans wanted the Congressional Budget Office's. The CBO had a less optimistic view of revenue that would be coming in, thus requiring deeper spending cuts.

Claim: "Says a gun bill before the Senate would make it a federal felony to leave town for more than seven days, and leave someone else at home with your firearms."
Evidence Summary: House Democrats are set to introduce a bill that would significantly expand the requirements for background checks on gun sales. The bill will be introduced on the eighth anniversary of the Tucson, Arizona, mass shooting that targeted one of Giffords’ constituent meetings. “I am thrilled that for the first time in decades, the United States House of Representatives will no longer sit silent as our nation reels from the growing gun violence epidemic,” the former Democratic congresswoman said in a statement.

Claim: "Says Arizona congressional candidate Christine Jones called Hillary Clinton a capable and respected leader, and an effective secretary of state. ...Hillary Clinton effective? Christine Jones thinks so."
Evidence Summary: The kind of outrage observed in the study might explain why Clinton’s favorables have always plummeted whenever she announced that she was seeking higher office. Her favorable ratings reached a peak of 67 percent in 1999, only to slump to the mid-40s when she ran for the Senate in 2000. In a 2012 Talking Points Memo article, Benjy Sarlin (now a reporter for NBC News) dubbed then-Secretary of State Clinton “badass cool.” Some, though, had already noticed the pattern and doubted the good times would last.

Claim: "The economic impact of new Atlanta Braves stadium includes 9,241 new jobs and $295 million in wages."
Evidence Summary: Amazon opted to split its vaunted HQ2 into two campuses, in New York and Arlington, Virginia. In Long Island City, the company plans to hire 25,000 employees making an average wage of $150,000. The state and city have promised it up to $3bn in tax breaks and public subsidies, sparking a backlash among local politicians, labor unions, and activist groups. But public opinion polls show that a majority of voters back the project, and Amazon has launched an ad campaign touting the benefits it says it will bring.

Claim: "In Oregon, women earn an average of 79 cents for every dollar that men earn for doing the same job. Thats just wrong."
Evidence Summary: Tucker Carlson lamented about what his show’s chyron described as “men in decline.” During one segment, he claimed there was “more drug and alcohol abuse” and “higher incarceration rates” in areas where women earn more money than their male counterparts. “Since we are all created equal, shouldn’t we be treated equally? There is no reasonable reason to pay men more than women for the same work,” two students wrote.

Claim: "It is wrong for the average federal worker today to make more than $100,000 while the average private-sector worker makes less than $70,000."
Evidence Summary: The average pretax income of the top 10th of Americans has doubled since 1980. The top 1% has more than tripled, and the top 0.001% has risen more than sevenfold. But the average Pretax Income of the bottom half has stayed almost precisely the same. ‘We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.’ ‘The same could be said of others around the world. And now many of the people who broke the progress machine are trying to sell us their services as repairmen’

Claim: "Loretta Lynch, the new nominee for attorney general, was a member of Bill Clintons defense team during the 1992 Whitewater corruption probe."
Evidence Summary: Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein's tentative plan to resign is ratcheting up lawmakers' concerns ahead of next week's confirmation hearing for William Barr. Rosenstein, who spent his career at the Department of Justice before Trump nominated him as DOJ’s No. 2 official, had come under fire from the president after he named Robert Mueller in May 2017 as special counsel to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., told President Donald Trump's nominee to be the next attorney general Tuesday that anyone filling that position must be capable of telling the president "no"

Claim: "We win when voter turnout is high, we lose when it is low."
Evidence Summary: “There is too much at stake to take that gamble. If we are going to maintain a two-party system, the mandate needs to be a clear one," Rose said. "Anger and resentment are not a governing philosophy," he added. "There is power in elected members of the United States Congress speaking up in the interest of their constituency and the American public." "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he said.

Claim: "Look, we are at war with these people and they dont wear uniforms. This is a war against people that are vicious, violent people, that we have no idea who they are, where they come from. We are allowing tens of thousands of them into our country now."
Evidence Summary: “Humanitarian Crisis at our Southern Border. I just got back and it is a far worse situation than almost anyone would understand, an invasion!” Trump tweeted Friday. “I have been there numerous times –The Democrats, Cryin’ Chuck and Nancy don’t know how bad and dangerous it is for our ENTIRE COUNTRY," he added. "Our troops are coming out," he said. "They are being kept from their families, and they need to come home"

Claim: "In 2010, uninsured voters made up about 5 percent of the electorate."
Evidence Summary: The uninsured rate among U.S. adults has reached its highest level in roughly four years, Gallup reported on Wednesday. The pollster found that 13.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. But as Kaiser Family Foundation Vice President Larry Levitt noted earlier on Wednesday, it’s a bit unclear what's actually happening with the uninsured rate, because different sources of data keep showing different patterns.

Claim: The mayor said 'if you happen to be in this country in an undocumented status . . . then we welcome you here. We want you here. We'll protect you here.'
Evidence Summary: The mayor of Laredo, Texas, welcomed then-candidate Trump at the time. Mayor Peter Saenz: "It has provided us an opportunity to present to Mr. Trump and his entourage what Lareda's all about" CNN's John Sutter spoke with Mayor Saenz this morning. Sutter: "I was very proud of the community who was out there to have their voices heard in opposition to some of the rhetoric that the president uses" "It's mixed feelings because I went to the protests that were occurring when the president was landing here in McAllen," Sutter said.

Claim: "Out of the total U.S. military budget, significantly less than 10 percent of that money is used to fight international terrorism."
Evidence Summary: Recent studies have shown that virtually all attempted terror plots within the U.S. since 9/11 were thwarted. Having troops on the ground in permanent wars overseas does nothing to prevent terrorists from attacking us here, but it does engender animosity and come at great cost. The only thing we accomplish by refusing to withdraw from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan is to dissipate our troops’ ability to defend against potentially existential threats that could arise elsewhere. It’s time to bring our troops home.

Claim: It is a greater crime to have an untagged alligator than to host an open house party (for kids).
Evidence Summary: The mucky, brownish water quickly rose up to 33-year-old Amanda Antonio’s neck, WFTS-TV reported. She was behind the wheel of a 2008 Toyota Scion sedan on I-4 in Tampa when another motorist cut her off. Police said were attempting to make contact with the crocodile's owner, described as a Japanese businessman who had opened the research facility where the tragedy took place. "We're confused about how this happened," Tomohon Police Chief Raswin Sirait said.

Claim: "When it comes to fighting terrorism, Another thing we know that does not work, based on lots of empirical evidence, is torture."
Evidence Summary: Pompeo: Obama's 2009 speech heralded an era of timidity, wishful thinking, and "willful blindness" He blamed the Obama administration's policies for allowing violence and extremism to flourish. "We were timid about asserting ourselves when the times — and our partners — demanded it," Pompeo said. "Having troops on the ground in permanent wars overseas does nothing to prevent terrorists from attacking us here," he added. "It does engender animosity and come at great cost"

Claim: "The federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is collecting financial information, monitoring financial information of millions of Americans without their knowledge and storing it for up to 10 years."
Evidence Summary: The FTC is in the advanced stages of its investigation into whether Facebook violated privacy rules. The FTC is expected to seek large fines from the company, people familiar with the inquiry say. In an essay published in Time magazine on Thursday, Cook honed in on data brokers. A new Vermont law requires data brokers to register with the state by the end of January and provide transparency information, such as if and how consumers can opt out of having their data sold, security breaches or whether they knowingly hold information about minors.

Claim: "So far, the Recovery Act is responsible for the jobs of about 2 million Americans who would otherwise be unemployed. ... [And] the Recovery Act is on track to save or create another 1.5 million jobs in 2010."
Evidence Summary: The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. Even wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly.

Claim: "At Texas AM University, only 49 out of 3,000 faculty members brought in enough money to pay for their salaries and overhead over the past five years."
Evidence Summary: In a national USA TODAY/Ipsos Poll last September, Americans by a similar 59 percent to 34 percent said teachers weren't paid what they're worth. In the survey, nearly four in 10 teachers say they had worked a second job over the past year to make ends meet. Almost three in 10 say they ran up debt during that time. The online survey of 504 adults who teach kindergarten through 12th grade in public, private and charter schools was conducted Jan. 11-17.

Claim: "Says the 1956 Republican Party platform supported equal pay, the minimum wage, asylum for refugees, protections for unions and more."
Evidence Summary: The Democratic Party is trying to appeal to those who feel threatened by social trends. The Social Security Act of 1935 was designed to protect the elderly, the disabled and the poor. The Democratic Party wants to protect those who are less likely to be able to afford health care and other benefits. The Republican Party is seeking to protect these benefits by raising taxes on the wealthy and making them available to the rest of the population. The aim is to protect people who are more likely to have to work hard to make ends meet.

Claim: "Minnesota is kicking butt relative to Wisconsin on everything from employment and job creation to school test scores, educated work force and a host of other factors and rankings"
Evidence Summary: Tribune Editorial Board: Democrats will succeed or fail based on key metrics. The pension debt, the state’s credit ratings, job and wage growth compared with similar states, the budget bottom line, and poverty and crime rates all come to mind. Both major parties ought to recognize the need to stanch an exodus of business and residents from Illinois, the board says. Our ears perked up when Pritzker said he would work to make Illinois “the fastest-growing big state economy in the nation,” the board writes.

Claim: Says he didnt tell viewers that the Obama campaign hid news about the motives behind the attack in Benghazi because Obama was running for re-election.
Evidence Summary:  Judicial Watch claims that Clinton intentionally used her private email server in an attempt to shield her communications from FOIA requests. The case has since expanded to question the motives behind Clinton's private email use while Secretary and behind the government's conduct in this litigation. Lamberth ruled that Judicial Watch can depose the State Department on the development of Rice's "talking points" for her media appearances, the "advance dissemination or discussion of those talking points" and State Department officials' "evolving understanding of the Benghazi attack"

Claim: "Over the last six years, the state of Illinois spent about $320 million on illegal immigrants."
Evidence Summary: In the last two years, ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records including those charged or convicted of 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes and 4,000 violent killings. Illegal immigration costs taxpayers a staggering $134.9 billion a year while contributing only $19 billion in state, federal, and local taxes. Medical costs make up the lion’s share of government expenditures on illegal immigrants, while education is the largest single expense that illegal immigration imposes on state and local governments.

Claim: "If Florida expanded Medicaid, some studies indicate it would create about 120,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Clinics are torn over whether to tell patients about possible changes to Medicaid. The changes could jeopardize the legal status of many immigrants who sign up for some government-funded programs. Some state attorneys general say they would challenge any such policy in the courts. The Trump administration is quietly devising a plan to give block grants to states for Medicaid, achieving a longstanding conservative dream of reining in spending on the health care safety net for the poor. The proposal could go into effect as early as this year.

Claim: "Every piece of legislation, just about, that I ever introduced (in the U.S. Senate) had a Republican co-sponsor."
Evidence Summary: Mr. McConnell fired back, noting the 2006 legislation. “Maybe the Democratic Party was for secure borders before they were against them,” he said. "Or maybe they are that dead-set on opposing this particular president on any issue, for any reason, just for the sake of opposing him," he said of Democrats. "But that's what's great about our Caucus. We're diverse, but we all come together when we’ve got to get things done," he added.

Claim: The Fulton County vote count will be finished by 11:30 p.m. on election night.
Evidence Summary: DuPage County Clerk Jean Kaczmarek said she expects to announce next week if her office can handle overseeing the April 2 Consolidated Election. The clerk, who was elected to the post in November, said she’s faced quite a few challenges since taking office. “I don’t even want to go into that now,” she said. But before she can supervise any election, she needs to alert county officials so they can officially dismantle the election commission. The earliest the DuPage County Board could vote would be January 15.

Claim: "The failed economic policies of President Barack Obama, the Democrats and the Federal Reserve are making gas prices higher while Americas economy is running on fumes."
Evidence Summary: "Do you think it’s just luck that gas prices are so low, and falling?" Trump tweeted. It took critics a few more hours to do what they have often done during the first two years of Trump's tenure — assert that the president was oversimplifying, at best. Cheaper gas increases consumption and automobile emissions, adding to Earth-warming greenhouse gases, said Borenstein. "That means even less progress on fighting climate change, which we know is largely man made," he said.

Claim: "Says Mitch McConnell voted to raise Medicare costs for a current Kentucky senior by $6,000."
Evidence Summary: As #MitchShutdown billboards dot the Kentucky countryside, McConnell has given no indication he's feeling the heat. Trump won Kentucky in 2016 with nearly 63 percent of the vote, some 400,000 more votes than McConnell in his last Senate election. "I don't want Mitch McConnell to cave on this," said Mike Bickers of Lexington, a 65-year-old retired sales rep for Coca-Cola. "We could bring that up for votes," said Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis.

Claim: "Im 59. In either Canada or Great Britain, if I broke my hip, I couldnt get it replaced."
Evidence Summary: Most insurance companies raise the costs for older people, despite evidence that people in their 70s are less likely to make a claim. You are considered a safe pair of hands in a car, but it is more expensive to be an active traveller. In the same vein, the decisions taken by health professionals need to be transparent so that we can publicly debate whether they are right. It may be a good thing that the NHS generally only supports IVF treatment for women up to 42. But a recent study found that while 81% of oncologists would prescribe chemotherapy for a high-risk breast cancer patient aged 68, only 47% would recommend the same treatment for an otherwise identical patient aged 73.

Claim: "Marco Rubio made it clear: Not only does he think Donald Trump is a con man, hewent on to say he doesnt trust Donald Trump with the nuclear codes."
Evidence Summary: Trump said he asked Pelosi if they spoke in 30 days, after a government reopening, "are you going to give us great border security, which includes a wall or a steel barrier" and she said no. "What you should do is give them Pinocchios" — handed out by the Washington Post fact-checker — because Mike Pence and Kevin McCarthy back his account of the meeting, Trump said. The president was on shakier ground when he scolded the press for reporting on something he's said dozens and dozens of times.

Claim: "Well, you know, the Teamsters wanted to drill in Alaska. I voted against drilling in Alaska. So it's not like I'm a slam dunk on every issue."
Evidence Summary: "I’m ready, willing and able to get a deal done. But they don’t. I think it’s bad politics," he says. "I never pit workers in Mexico or France against workers in the United States" "We're diverse, but we've got to work together," he adds. "It's time to get back to work." "I don't think it's good for the country if we don't have a deal," says Rep. Steve Scalise.

Claim: "My plan actually gives the middle class the greatest break: $2,000 per family."
Evidence Summary: Julian Zelizer: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act took us in exactly the wrong direction. He says it radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations, at a cost of $1.9 trillion over 10 years. And the new law provides only marginal or no benefits for average Americans and households of color in particular, he says. Zelizer says to win the anxious middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters, especially on health care and education.

Claim: She [Hillary Clinton] has also said unequivocally that she didnt receive classified documents.
Evidence Summary: Sanders didn’t offer evidence of Clinton disparaging FBI agents — or calling them names. When you're attacking FBI agents because you're under criminal investigation, you're losing. Nancy Pelosi never, ever -- not once -- reached out to the Department of Homeland Security or the Secret Service before making that announcement. "The secretary barely testified," Pelosi told reporters afterwards. "They had an intelligence briefing, which I won't go into, and then they read a document that was unclassified, wasting the time of Congress"

Claim: "Says she is entering in the most diverse class ever, of U.S. Representatives"
Evidence Summary: The 116th Congress is the most diverse in U.S. history. But the physical presence of people of color in Congress does not automatically equal robust political advocacy. The kind of progressive, some might even say radical, changes that have been promised by some of this year’s new representatives are far from guaranteed. So, beyond the remarkable images of young women of color joining a chamber that remains largely white and male, hard questions remain about whether a more diverse Congress will deliver something new.

Claim: "In other jurisdictions where (a domestic partnership registry) has been enacted, we have seen that fewer people enter into marriage."
Evidence Summary: “Our immigration system may unintentionally shield the abuse of women and children,” the senators said in a letter. USCIS didn’t know how many of the approvals were granted by the State Department, but overall only about 2.6 percent of spousal or fiancee claims are rejected. Separately, the data show some 4,749 minor spouses or fiancees received green cards to live in the U.S. over that same 10-year period. “I’m going to keep screaming until the federal government is not complicit in child marriages anymore," she said.

Claim: "Says state Sen. Steve Ogden was the driving force behind business income tax hurting small business, crafted the Robin Hood school finance scheme making property taxes skyrocket, wrote a budget that will result in a $14 billion deficit and voted against gun freedoms."
Evidence Summary: Linda McDaniel-Hale: Gov. Rauner is a politically clueless ideologue, not the sort of can-do leader Illinois needs. Without more prudence in handling the huge budget crisis in Illinois, more and more citizens will move to other states where tax rates are more equitable, she says. She says he could have had a track record of accomplishment if he hadn’t chosen to relentlessly accuse Democratic legislative leaders of being crooked and corrupt when he needed their respect and cooperation to advance his agenda.

Claim: "And, you know, our first president and our first commander in chief prayed every day. He had a field manual of prayers."
Evidence Summary: Reynolds likened the opportunity to serve in his government to being on a football team. During the late-night service, the president turned preacher, sermonising for several hours. He recited, from memory, the preamble of the United States Constitution, which he said defines the goals of safety in a community. “I’m about prayer, but then you have to have some action to go with it,” he said.“Our motto is, ‘God above all things’ ”

Claim: "On three occasions, judges had to stop Jason Kander from manipulating elections."
Evidence Summary: North Carolina’s since-disbanded elections board twice made bipartisan decisions in late November to withhold finalizing the Harris-McCready election. Questions surround a political operative in rural Bladen County, Leslie McCrae Dowless, who worked for Harris’ campaign at the candidate's insistence. The election gave Democrats a 5-2 majority on the council, while Republicans still have a 2-1majority on the board of commissioners. “We want to prove to the people of Porter County that Democrats can run good, clean, transparent county government,” said Democratic Party Chair Jeff Chidester.

Claim: "Nobody knows about it, nobody talks about it, but under Obama, millions of people have been moved out of this country, theyve been deported."
Evidence Summary: "The Steel Barrier, or Wall, should have been built by previous administrations long ago. They never got it done - I will. Without it, our Country cannot be safe. Criminals, Gangs, Human Traffickers, Drugs & so much other big trouble can easily pour in. It can be stopped cold!" Trump wrote on Sunday, quoting the former president in 2005. Obama made the remarks at a press conference with then-Florida GOP Sen. Mel Martinez, as part of a bipartisan effort to address illegal immigration.

Claim: "We have a tax code that allows groups to use their political operations within the tax code, under the guise of a charity, to use undisclosed millions of dollars to do political campaigns."
Evidence Summary: House Democrats are up and running, and their first bill is instructive. Couched as an anti-corruption and good-government measure, it is really an attempt to silence or obstruct political opponents. A central part of H.R. 1 is “campaign-finance reform,” no surprise given the progressive fixation with money in politics. The House bill requires some advocacy groups to publicly disclose the names of donors who give more than $10,000, even if the groups...

Claim: "In the past year alone, Ohio businesses have created more jobs than almost every other state in the country."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. The labor market gains have been widespread, with unemployment rates for black, Hispanic, and female jobseekers reaching record lows. In fact, the small business job creation engine is so strong that there are now 6.9 million unfilled jobs in the country.

Claim: "According to crime statistics, riding MARTA has been becoming more and more safe over the years."
Evidence Summary: "We need to up the clearance rates. They’re abysmal, not just for homicides, but car jackings, all violent crime," Joyce said. "We now have to do a far better job of building our infrastructure to accommodate all road users," Kolosh said. “We typically focus on the unusual or scary events ... and assume that those are the riskiest,” he added. "Policing through the ages has changed but the danger has not. These heroes deserve our support and respect"

Claim: "Rick Scott has heavily invested in a company that is geared to helping illegal aliens transfer money to family and friends out of the country."""
Evidence Summary: Howard Buffett, Warren’s oldest son, has become a crusader at the border, using his organizations and wealth to boost security efforts of local authorities and volunteer groups. Buffett owns a ranch in Cochise County, Arizona, that sits just 300 yards from the U.S.-Mexico border. According to the report, much of that money has been used to jump-start an investigative unit into human and drug smuggling, renovate one jail, build law enforcement training facilities, including a shooting range.

Claim: "Says her actions as Wisconsin commerce secretary brought the state 84,000 more Wisconsin jobs than we have today."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said. He brushed off bipartisan warnings that he was staining his legacy, saying he will be remembered for other things.

Claim: "Says she introduced a ban on ""dirty dancing."""
Evidence Summary: Freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., posted a video of herself dancing in the halls of Congress on Friday. "I hear the GOP thinks women dancing are scandalous. Wait till they find out Congresswomen dance too!" she tweeted. An old video of her breaking out some "Breakfast Club"-type dance moves emerged on social media on Thursday, the day she was to be sworn in. The video sparked debate online, with some calling it "scandalous" and "bizarre"

Claim: "The reality is that we have roughly 15,000 undocumented immigrants living in the state..."
Evidence Summary: President Trump tweeted about the number of immigrants in U.S. prisons. The Bureau of Prisons says 21 percent of its inmate population are immigrants. The number of undocumented immigrants is unknown. About one-quarter of the over 40 million immigrants in the United States are unauthorized, a Pew study says. The survey also found that Republicans living near the border have a different view of immigrants than those who live farther away, the study said. The study was based on a survey of more than 1,000 Americans.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton has taken hundreds of millions from those countries where women are stoned, where women are killed for adulteryand women cant drive."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand took the stage at the Women’s March Iowa where she spoke to a crowd of hundreds inside the state capitol as thousands more participated in marches across the country. Cheers erupted as the presidential hopeful praised the victories that female voters have been able to achieve and she asked the crowd to picture a world with more women in power. “Despite that progress, women still do not represent 51 percent of elected leaders in this country," she said. "Imagine just for a moment what America would look like if it did"

Claim: "Says when she helped get $15 billion more for veterans care, Kucinich voted No."
Evidence Summary: Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., spent a fair amount of time in the first week of her campaign apologizing for her past positions that were significantly more centrist and conservative than where the Democratic Party is today. From 2002 to 2018, the period that marked her ascent to and occupation of the highest perch in her party's House leadership, she raised $680m for Democrats. "Speaking was never her strong suit," Povich says. "Her strong suit was the insider game, the coalition game and the organiser game"

Claim: "Under the cromnibus law, taxpayers must guarantee incredibly risky derivatives deals made by the nations largest banks."
Evidence Summary: The government should crack down on noncompete clauses, which undermine workers’ ability to sell their labor to the highest bidder. This pre-distribution approach to labor would likely appeal to swing voters. Likewise, financial regulation is not just about preventing financial institutions from taking excessive risks or protecting small investors from their own folly. In recent years, the relaxing of regulations has allowed financial firms to enjoy greater profits and bank executives to win higher compensation without delivering more value to ordinary investors. The government should reinforce the Dodd-Frank rules that constrain financial institutions.

Claim: "This year, the overwhelming majority of new jobs are part time."
Evidence Summary: The overall trend in Australia’s labor market has been robust over the past couple of years with annual job growth of 2.2 percent, faster than the 1.6 percent rise in population. Full-time positions expanded by almost 2 percent in 2018. The share of people who have part-time jobs but would prefer to work full time is higher today than it was in 2007. Companies find they can't necessarily do as they once did, which is look for people whose experience and knowledge are exact matches for corporate needs.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton said, with a straight face, that the terrorist attacks this weekend were caused by Donald J. Trump"
Evidence Summary: Hillary Clinton tweeted a reminder that in 2016 she predicted Donald Trump would become the puppet of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Clinton retweeted an excerpt from a 2016 presidential debate in which Trump said Putin had no respect for her. Clinton's tweet reiterating her claim that Trump is a Russian puppet comes after news reports over the weekend that added fuel to the debate over Trump's Russia ties. The New York Times reported Friday that the FBI investigated whether Trump was working on Putin's behalf after he fired director James Comey. And on Sunday, The Washington Post reported that Trump went to "extraordinary lengths" to conceal details from his conversations with Putin.

Claim: "An April 7, 2015 referendum would take the choice of chief justice of the Wisconsin Supreme Court away from the people."
Evidence Summary: Attorney General Eric Holder says he's concerned about the impact of the charges. He says the charges are a signal to voters who soon will decide whether to keep Burke in office. Holder: The cynicism that’s jaded our view of national politics appears to have spilled into local government. The Justice Department didn’t want you to go to the polls Feb. 26 only to learn afterward that we’re charging this candidate with a crime. The ripple effects extend beyond Burke's offices at City Hall and at his law firm.

Claim: "For NATO exercises, we dont have enough of our own hardware and equipment even for training purposes. So the Britsare spotting us choppers."
Evidence Summary: Germany is the second-largest troop contributor to NATO, proud to lead NATO’s Very High Readiness Joint Task Force. NATO has also increased its presence in Eastern Europe, plays an active role in training Iraqi security forces and contributing surveillance to the fight against the Islamic State. The exercises included communication drills, division tactics and “a personnel exchange designed to address common maritime security priorities, enhance interoperability, and develop relationships that will benefit both navies for many years to come," officials said.

Claim: "As a candidate, President Obama declared that everyone deserves access to reproductive health care that includes abortion, and vowed that this 'right' would be at the heart of his health care reform plan if elected president."
Evidence Summary: At issue is a requirement under ObamaCare that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. Obama officials included exemptions for religious organizations. The Trump administration expanded those exemptions and added “moral convictions” as a basis to opt out of providing contraception services. With Democrats now in control of the U.S. House of Representatives, it might appear that the fight over abortion rights has become a standoff. But those on both sides of the debate insist that won’t be the case.

Claim: "Says DonaldTrump proposes tax cuts, too -- $3 trillion for millionaires like himself and $2 trillion for corporations like his."
Evidence Summary: O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he said. The idea that wealth “trickles down” from the richest to those less privileged has been bashed by none other than billionaire investor Warren Buffett. President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes”

Claim: "The Iran deal violates promises the president made to the American people. ...It is not an anytime, anywhere inspection process."
Evidence Summary: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo touted that Trump had “reversed our willful blindness” to the Iranian regime’s danger. But the only sanctions Obama lifted were those that had been imposed after the discovery of Iran's covert and illegal nuclear program. International inspectors have attested, time and again, that Iran is abiding by the terms of the deal. The allegations of espionage and cyberattacks by Iran come at a time when Europe is working to preserve the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran.

Claim: "Under a House Republican appropriations bill, 6 million seniors are deprived of meals."
Evidence Summary: The government will distribute food benefits that 38 million people would normally receive in February weeks early in an attempt to make sure that month’s benefits were paid before the program's money ran out. The administration announced its plans as the White House worked to limit Republican defections on spending bills in the House. Democrats set a vote for Thursday on the agriculture bill, which is largely made up of payments for food stamps, knowing that it would put pressure on Republicans to abandon their leaders and vote for the measure.

Claim: "Last year, handguns killed 48 people in Japan, 8 in Great Britain, 34 in Switzerland, 52 in Canada, 58 in Israel, 21 in Sweden, 42 in West Germany and 10,728 in the United States."
Evidence Summary: Two of the five worst mass shootings in recent U.S. history occurred in 2017. Studies show increases in firearm ownership and carrying are positively correlated with increases in homicide and suicide. In Brazil, a 1 percent rise in firearm availability increases the homicide rate by 2 percent. There is virtually no evidence to support the idea that expanding access to firearms increases individual safety and security, says Dr. David Frum, a professor of psychiatry at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the director of the Violence Policy Center.

Claim: "Says she heard more than 2,400 cases as a Wisconsin appeals court judge"
Evidence Summary: Patricia Wald, a trailblazing judge best known for her work uplifting society's underdogs, has died at the age of 90. Ruth Bader Ginsburg is once again on the Supreme Court’s injured list. The 85-year-old jurist has suffered several health setbacks over the past few months, including a fall that fractured three ribs in November. A new associate judge has been appointed in Lake County Circuit Court, replacing former Associate Margaret Marcouiller who has retired.

Claim: "In altered photo, says Barack Obama wants more of Texans private data via health care."
Evidence Summary: Americans for Tax Fairness says obtaining Trump's tax returns is a "legitimate exercise of Congress's oversight authority" A 2013 change in federal health privacy law made it easier for hospitals to target their patients for donations. Few patients are aware that their wealth may be assessed for fund-raising, a former health information privacy official said. The calls come after reports from The New York Times and Vice that provided an alarming look at just how much location data is quietly collected through smartphones. "The campaigns definitely will be paying attention to us," said Jessica Rosenworcel, a Democrat on the Federal Communications Commission.

Claim: "The states unemployment rate is fifth-highest in the country, a full point above the nationwide rate and higher than all of our...neighboring states."
Evidence Summary: Unemployment rate rose to 3.9%, but only because more people entered the workforce. Alaska has the highest percentage of civilian federal employees who work for agencies affected by the shutdown in a single state. Across metropolitan areas, the percentage of jobs that don't require a bachelor's degree that are good or promising ranges from 35 percent in Spokane, Washington, to 9 percent in Washington, D.C. Cities and states should focus on broader types of employment to extend economic improvement to every part of society, instead of trying to attract the big names such as Amazon.

Claim: "The Obama-Clinton war on coal has cost Michigan over 50,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: GM is considering moving its production to Mexico to escape the tariffs that President Trump has put on imported components. “It’s killing us,” said the chairman of the company, Pat LeBlanc, 63, a Republican who voted for Mr. Trump. The Obama administration never claimed that every high-risk investment would pay out, and a slew of investigations never uncovered anything untoward about the Solyndra deal. Many residents believe the federal government does far more harm than good when it comes to the coal beneath the ground.

Claim: "For my energy plan, my economic plan, and the other proposals you'll hear tonight, I've offered spending cuts above and beyond their cost."
Evidence Summary: "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," she says. "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," she adds. "The American people right now are united, that they want sensible solutions to deal with the things that really cause them pain and suffering," she concludes. "Now it's our responsibility to actually do something about it," she writes. "I applaud the president for re-evaluating what he's doing."

Claim: "There are about 350,000 people who succeed in crossing our borders illegally each year."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post offered a series of “fact checks” following President Trump’s primetime address from the Oval Office on border security. One of them raised eyebrows, as it complained the president's crime stats were too comprehensive. Trump's error was one of several he uttered during a high-profile tour of the border to push for funding for his border wall. The battle has led to a 20-day partial government shutdown and driven him to consider declaring a national emergency to build his wall.

Claim: "Says by 4th grade, 86 percent of African-American boys and 82 percent (of) Hispanic boys are reading below proficiency levels."
Evidence Summary: Research indicates that African-American and Latino students are more likely than their white peers to be expelled or suspended as a consequence for the same negative behavior. In 2013-14, there were approximately 17.4 million more white students attending K-12 public schools than black students. Nearly 176,000 more black students than white students were suspended that school year. The number of African-Americans statewide graduating with degrees in education was 1,724 in 2009. In 2016, that number was 802.

Claim: "On the day that (the Republican) state leader resigned in disgrace, a Shred-It' truck rolled up to Republican headquarters."
Evidence Summary: North Carolina House race marred by fraud may not be resolved until the fall. ‘I’m running because I think Kansas wants a conservative fighter in the United States Senate,’ LaTurner said. Back in 1984, Senator Mitch McConnell was running for election in Kentucky and sent out a bloodhound looking for the Democratic senator. It’s time to send out that Kentucky bloodhound and look for Senate Republicans, the centrists who were shut down by the White House.

Claim: "Tax rates were significantly higher ""in the '40s, the '50s, and the '60s."""
Evidence Summary: The U.S. came as close as any democratic country ever did to imposing a legal maximum income. Conservatives often present this fact as evidence that those rates were a mostly symbolic sham. But Saez and Zucman suggest that the opposite was true. The fact that hardly anybody paid those rates was a sign of their near total success.. That few people faced the 90 percent top tax rates was not a bug; it was the feature that caused sky-high incomes to largely disappear. The economy still grew when tax rates were high.

Claim: "Wisconsin requires, by law, a photo ID to vote."
Evidence Summary: Liberal advocacy group One Wisconsin Now joined with the National Redistricting Foundation to argue the new restrictions violated a 2016 federal ruling on election laws in Wisconsin. The groups appealed to the judge in that case, Judge James Peterson of the Western District of Wisconsin, to block the new law. Peterson issued a favorable ruling for the groups on Thursday afternoon. "This is not a close question," Peterson wrote in his decision. The judge also struck down a law passed during the lame duck session that requires a 2-year expiration date on student IDs used for identification at the polls.

Claim: "U.S. Sen. Johnny Isakson has never proposed, nor voted in favor of, a substantial cut in federal spending and has voted for many substantial increases in federal spending."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Raúl Grijalva of Arizona is demanding more details on how Interior is paying for the work. Rep. John Katko of New York says he would never vote to shut down the government or to continue a government shutdown. Sen. Mitt Romney said he would vote to reopen the government first without border security funding, but he would consider other options. GOP Rep. Adam Kinzinger accused tea party Republicans of making it harder for others to win competitive districts in competitive districts.

Claim: "John McCain voted against establishing a national holiday in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr."
Evidence Summary: “The Grand Wizard of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,” said Jeffries, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, as he addressed the National Action Network in New York. “One of the things that we’ve learned, is that while Jim Crow may be dead he’s still got some nieces and nephews that are alive and well” Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., said at a Martin Luther King Jr. Day event in South Carolina: “It gives me no pleasure to tell you that we now have a president of the United States who is a racist”

Claim: "Risk analysts listed Donald Trump, a Donald Trump presidency, as one of the top threats facing the global economy, ahead of terrorism."
Evidence Summary: Experts are downgrading their forecasts for global growth this year amid rising interest rates and tensions over trade. The collective worries have sent a shudder through global financial markets: the Dow Jones industrial average is down nearly 9 percent from Oct. 3. The World Bank and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development have also downgraded their world growth forecasts. For most of the past quarter century, the worldview symbolized by the World Economic Forum — of ever-freer world trade and closer ties between countries — had dominated.

Claim: "In 2007, the top 1 percent of all income earners in the United States made 23.5 percent of all income, which is more than the entire bottom 50 percent."
Evidence Summary: As people of color make up a larger share of the diversifying US population, that persistent racial wealth divide is bringing down America’s median wealth. But while wealth at the middle falters, it's skyrocketing at the top. For the highest 0.1 percent of earners, incomes have grown more than 300 percent; for the top 0.01 percent, income has grown by as much as 450 percent. Globally, over the same period, the top 1% captured 27% of new income, while the bottom half of humanity – presently, more than 3 billion people – saw 12% of it.

Claim: "In Congress Tom Barrett voted to allow abortions through the ninth month, just moments before the baby is born."
Evidence Summary: Pro-choice politicians fear the overturning of Roe v. Wade and will stop at nothing to draw this out during the process of Brett Kavanaugh's Supreme Court confirmation. There’s something strangely anachronistic about the debate: Roe while the “law of the land” is outdated when considering the latest advances in science and technology. "By no means do we think that decisions around these very important life issues are to be taken lightly," Stewart-Cousins said.

Claim: "Of the 13 (Bill) Clinton speeches that fetched $500,000 or more, only two occurred during the years his wife was not secretary of state."
Evidence Summary: Biden’s aides have declined to confirm what his rates are for paid appearances, including the appearance in Michigan. In at least one instance, his speaking bureau, Creative Artists Agency, offered a reduced rate of $100,000, plus travel expenses, to the University of Utah. If Mr. Biden were to have charged a similar range of fees for all his comparable speeches since leaving office, he would most likely have collected between $4 million and $5 million through speeches over the last two years.

Claim: "When (Barack Obama) took office, 2.3 million people were out of work. Five-plus years later, we have 5 million-plus out of work."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump’s capitalist economic policies are reducing income disparity for working-class Americans. The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. President Trump cut taxes, slashed regulations, and encouraged domestic energy production. Through his first six quarters in office, economic growth doubled from 1.5 percent to 3 percent. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president ever created’

Claim: "Says in January 1992, George H. W. Bush probably had a 90 percent or even higher approval rating after the first Gulf War."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump remains the only president in the history of the Gallup poll not to crack the 50% threshold. His overall approval rating - 37% according to Gallup - is on a par with Ronald Reagan's at the two-year mark. Because Donald Trump is unwilling to accept he is anything other than an A+ president, the grade he has bestowed upon himself, he is not prepared to adopt the kind of correctives that have saved troubled presidencies. JFK learnt from the disaster of the Bay of Pigs and the bullying he received from Nikita Khrushchev at the Vienna summit.

Claim: "When LBJ started#WarOnPoverty, 14% of Americans lived in poverty. 50 yrs later, 14% still do. Theres a #BetterWay."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez: "Where do we draw the line in terms of our excess?" "Until America tells the truth about itself," she added, "we are not going to heal" "The task of the movement today," Coates said, "is to craft one that argues for a better world" "I'm determined that we build an America where not just the children of rich people get the chance to build something," she said. "My daddy ended up as a janitor, and I had a chance to become a public-school teacher, a college professor and a United States senator"

Claim: "[Mitt] Romney and [Brendan] Doherty certainly have a lot in common, like flip-flopping on abortion -- in Dohertys case, in a little over a week."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote an op-ed in The Washington Post saying Donald Trump was not fit to be president. Romney has a history of flip-flopping on issues from abortion to Vietnam to stem-cell research. Romney still endorsed most of the president's policies and praised his selection of wingnuts like Jeff Sessions to his administration. But he failed to mention how he was all too happy to accept Trump’s endorsements during his own presidential run in 2012 and in his race for the Senate last year.

Claim: "In 32 other states and Washington D.C., they [voters] can avoid the wait by voting before Election Day."
Evidence Summary: The For the People Act would require states to allow people to register on the same day they vote. It would also allow voters to cast ballots for at least 15 consecutive days before Election Day. Twenty states and the District of Columbia have approved some form of same-day registration. The pilot program in the Democrats’ bill would be implemented in three randomly selected states to test how it works for congressional elections and whether it should be expanded to the whole country. The bill would require local election boards to establish one early voting site for every 50,000 voters.

Claim: "Responding to a major snow event in Atlanta would be like Kansas City, Mo., responding to a major earthquake."
Evidence Summary: FEMA chief: "We need to make sure everybody gets the alert before the next big earthquake strikes" "The number of people having that conversation is larger today that it ever has been in the past," he says. "We have this tendency in this country to think we can build our way out of stuff," he adds. "No more fries, sir. The Clemson leftovers ran out," says the president of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness. "It's a marvel that we're still able to get out of the mess we are in," says FEMA chief.

Claim: "In April 1997, there was a gas out conducted nationwide in protest of gas prices. Gasoline prices dropped 30 cents a gallon overnight."
Evidence Summary: On Friday, amid countrywide fuel shortages at gas stations as the government attempts to stem widespread fuel theft, this particular section of pipeline had come back into service after being offline for nearly four weeks. "It was the popular tap," said Enrique Cerron, 22, who lives near the field. "You could pass by at 11 or 12 in the morning and see people filling up here." Hundreds showed up at the spigot, carrying plastic jugs and covering their faces with bandanas.

Claim: Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani was never sentenced to stoning.
Evidence Summary: Rahim Mohammadi was sentenced to a minimum of 19 years in prison. He throttled an 80-year-old woman with a mower cable in February 2017. It took a retrial for him to be convicted after detectives spent five weeks in court. He was a plot-holder at the allotment and known by others there for his threatening, aggressive and violent behaviour. Police said the alleged offences were not linked to Mr Simionov's death in the attack - at about 05:30.

Claim: "During the Reagan administration, ""Millions of people were thrown out of work."""
Evidence Summary: On Aug. 3, 1981, after several months of negotiation with the FAA, several thousand air traffic controllers went on strike. In response, then-President Ronald Reagan ordered these federal employees to return to work within 48 hours or risk losing their jobs. Over 11,000 controllers refused, so Reagan fired them and banned them from returning to work at the FAA. On Aug. 5, he fired the 11,500 controllers who had not returned to their jobs and ban them from federal employment for life. It was a defining moment for Reagan and cowed the American labor movement for decades to come.

Claim: "In New England, Rhode Island has the second highest number of police officers being assaulted."
Evidence Summary: Davis, California, police officer Natalie Corona was ambushed and shot dead on Jan. 10. In Arizona, the killing of a Salt River Police officer appears to have been accidental. An average of almost 3,000 assaults a year on Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) officers have been recorded over the past 10 years. Assaults can include anything from being spat at or verbally abused to murder. The Police Federation said there is a societal problem with an expectation police are "fair game" for assault.

Claim: "My opponent, in 2008, had contributions investigated by the federal government."
Evidence Summary: The GOP wants to cut the federal dole to “taker” states and return more money to ‘maker’ states. The states most dependent on federal funds (“takers”) tend to vote Republican (such as Kentucky) The states paying more than they receive in Federal funding tend toVote for Democrats (suchas Massachusetts) The Obama campaign was required to file special notices regarding contributions received less than 20 days before the election. The campaign’s civil infraction resulted in an administrative penalty.

Claim: "In recent polling in battleground states, a majority of the people said Hillary Clinton is untrustworthy."
Evidence Summary: Americans give poor marks to Trump’s work across a range of issues – yet broadly mistrust the opposition as well. Nearly half of Americans -- 48 percent -- say they have no confidence “at all” in the president compared with 37 percent who say that about Pelosi. If pushed to choose whom they’d be more likely to support in a political discussion between Trump and congressional Republicans, Trump voters currently say by a 64-percentage-point margin that they would back the president. A 57 percent majority of Trump voters believe that most or all of the congressional GOP supports Trump.

Claim: "After not having any foreign trade offices overseas for the past decade, New Jersey opened offices in Shanghai and London in the past six months, and has seen an 18 percent increase in exports."
Evidence Summary: Shinzō Abe is to meet Theresa May in London on Thursday. He will first visit Netherlands, where many Japanese firms are relocating. UK absorbs 40% of Japanese investment destined for the EU. Some Japanese firms have lost patience with the UK’s inability to provide certainty. There are an estimated 1,000 Japanese firms operating in the UK employing 150,000 people. The Japanese ambassador to London, Koji Tsuruoka, has already said “no private company can continue operations” in Britain if it becomes unprofitable.

Claim: "Says that as a gubernatorial candidate, Chris Christie promised no school cuts."
Evidence Summary: “I’m not against taxes and funding our schools as that is our future,” said Oswego resident John Secor. “I know there is a new funding law but I keep hearing strange things and want to get some accurate information,’ said Aurora resident Jan Pietka. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "With her solution, terrorists can still today and by the way ISIS knows it, they have been advertising it buy guns online and at gun shows in the United States of America."
Evidence Summary: "I believe in America and I believe in our political system," Pelosi said. She said she also doubted that Trump’s proposed wall on the U.S.-Mexico border will ever be built. “Now is the time to come together, be responsible ― Democrats, Republicans, everyone. We must never stop fighting,” she said in the Democrats’ rebuttal speech at the Democratic National Committee convention on Tuesday. "We all agree that we need to secure our borders, while honoring our values," she said.

Claim: "Despite President Barack Obamas promise to cut healthcare costs, the average cost of a family policy is up $1,300."
Evidence Summary: About 10 million people who don't get health insurance on the job purchase individual policies under the ACA. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014. Critics claimed these changes and others like them would lead to “higher costs and less coverage” and would “eliminate protections for people with pre-existing conditions.’ The latest data shows those criticisms are unfounded. The overriding concern for American families is rising health- care costs.

Claim: "Says the Texas Department of Agriculture seeks to purchase up to 300,000 promotional stress balls."
Evidence Summary: The partial government shutdown is beginning to be felt across various areas of American life. Farmers awaiting emergency federal aid amid the US-China trade war face further uncertainty thanks to the closure of the US agriculture department. Avocados growers in Mexico’s western Michoacán state send truckloads of the creamy fruit they call ‘green gold’ to the United States ahead of Super Bowl Sunday. But they warned those shipments might not make it ahead of the game's Feb. 3 kickoff due to fuel shortages.

Claim: "Says he didnt call Dr. George Tiller a baby killer, as liberal groups charge, but was merely reporting what some prolifers branded him."
Evidence Summary: Roe v. Wade allowed elective abortion throughout all nine months of a woman’s pregnancy, making the United States one of only seven countries allowing late term abortions. With Democrats now in control of the U.S. House of Representatives, it might appear that the fight over abortion rights has become a standoff. Despite the Republicans’ loss of the House, anti-abortion forces gained one of their most sought-after victories in decades with the confirmation of Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.

Claim: "Quotes Mark Cuban as saying,I worry that millions of millennials are voting Democrat this year because they fact-check everything."
Evidence Summary: Favorable trends might tempt Democrats to think they can thrive without the voters Bustos reaches. In November’s midterm elections, Democrats won two-thirds of voters ages 18 to 29, and 71 percent of millennial women. Boomers are — were; they are shuffling off the stage — almost 75 percent white; millennials are 56 percent white. When other demographic factors and overall posting tendencies are factored in, the average person older than 65 shared seven times more false information than those between 18 and 29.

Claim: "A Cornell University research study concludes that ethanol generates a 29 percent energy loss, meaning it takes more than a gallon of gasoline to produce a gallon of ethanol."
Evidence Summary: Cargill Inc., the largest privately-held U.S. company, cited "historically low ethanol prices" as one of the reasons one of its segments posted lower quarterly earnings from a year ago. Ethanol makers slashed production rates last year due in part to negative profit margins, according to the companies and traders. Prices for DDGs in the eastern half of Iowa, the top ethanol producing state, surged to $180 per ton in December, the highest in 3-1/2 years.

Claim: "In preparing a rules package for the 112th Congress, the GOP had no discussions with Democrats."
Evidence Summary: Democrats are not eager to negotiate with the president so long as the federal government is partially shut down. Democrats passed bills to reopen the government without addressing the wall. Republicans didn’t join them. In order to be effective and actually send legislation to the president, the House must work with the Senate. The rules package also allows Congress to suspend the debt limit by passing a budget -- the so-called Gephardt Rule. It was not yet clear Tuesday afternoon whether any of the members of the Problem Solvers Caucus had accepted the invitation.

Claim: "UPS left 15,000 employees spouses without health insurance and told them to, go on an exchange with no employer subsidy."
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic. It is the very plausible sounding Medicare-for-all idea that truly is “fool's gold.”

Claim: "Says the goal of the Affordable Care Act was to get 30 million people insured, but it only got 7 million."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. The uninsured rate peaked at 18 percent in Gallup’s survey. But in the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent, not far from today's mark. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate.

Claim: GEORGIA ROADWAY FATALITIES THIS YEAR: 59 PLEASE DRIVE SAFELY
Evidence Summary: It was the second crash in three days involving multiple deaths on Interstate 75. Pedestrian deaths have been at a 25-year high, according to the Governors Highway Safety Association. A 2017 study found that an average of 13 people a day were killed by cars between 2005 and 2014, and that people of color and the elderly are disproportionately at risk. The number of traffic fatalities in the United States fell by about 2 percent in 2017, but that followed increases in deaths in 2016 and 2015.

Claim: "There is not one of the Muslim nations that doesnt have discrimination against women, discrimination against gays, subjugation of other religious beliefs."
Evidence Summary: "It's not right, the image of Muslim men [as sexist]. Muslim women can be in positions of power," she said. Goddard said he wanted to “ban Islam from the west’, calling the faith “a threat to every man, woman and child in this country” He added: “I just don’t think that Islam is compatible with the west.” If Muslims refused to leave voluntarily, “then we’d have to think of a legal way that we could do it”

Claim: "Medicare spends ""$15-billion a year on subsidies to insurance companies."""
Evidence Summary: Medicare-for-all would double the size of federal government spending. Even a doubling of corporate and individual income taxes would fail to cover its costs. Sanders’ plan builds on Medicare, the insurance program for seniors. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services.. The insurance industry would be regulated to play a minor role in the system. The plan would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years.

Claim: "If youre born poor, youre more likely to stay poor than any time in American history."
Evidence Summary: Among Americans born in 1984, the new reality is split-screen. Those raised near the top of the income ladder now have a 70% chance of realising the dream. Meanwhile, those close to the bottom, more in need of elevation, have a 35% chance. The British Social Attitudes survey suggests a swing back towards empathy with the swelling numbers of poor people – including more than four million children. But still inheritance tax remains the most reviled of all taxes. Poor people tend to spend their money on goods and services which creates jobs.

Claim: "When Josh Mandel claims to have accepted three debates with Sen. Sherrod Brown, he is lying. He has accepted ZERO proposed debates."
Evidence Summary: The election board rejected Wilson’s attempt to keep state Rep. LaShawn Ford out of the mayoral election. Brown hired an Iowa-based former field director for Bernie Sanders' 2016 campaign. Bullock wouldn’t answer questions about his presidential plans during a Wednesday news conference. The Minnesota Democrat has not signaled when a presidential announcement could come, but said in an interview this week that her family is "on board" with a Klobuchar candidacy. and a decision is pending on Wilson's fight to keep tech entrepreneur Neal Sales-Griffin's name from appearing on the list of candidates to succeed Rahm Emanuel.

Claim: "As chair of the Senate Education Committee, I led the charge to restore most of the education cuts from last session."
Evidence Summary: "He had one great message, about lowering fees, and he kept hammering away at it," she says of Obama. "This committee has the ability within it to do big things long overdue," Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., says. "I look forward to solving as many problems as we can," Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Connecticut, says of the president. "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," she adds.

Claim: Thirty U.S. cities have Triple A baseball teams and virtually everyone of them [is] playing in government owned ballparks.
Evidence Summary: The city of Chicago and Cook County own a range of commercial assets, including transportation networks and water utilities. It’s time to unlock the value of public commercial assets as a core urban strategy and use it for the public good. Professionally managing publicly owned real estate and other commercial assets could yield more resources than most cities’ total current investment in infrastructure. The fact that governments own vast commercial assets has for the last half-century triggered a polarized debate that pits public against private ownership.

Claim: "Look, I believe in accountability. In 1983, I led the effort in Arkansas to improve our schools."
Evidence Summary: “I look at some of the predatory, for-profit educations that just don’t care,” she says. “We need the government to start focusing on our education.” “For the students, I teach now, for their brothers and sisters, and for my kids who are one and four, I want very much for them to go to a public school just like I went to public schools. We have to do something.“We want our schools to improve and we’ll do anything we can to help.’

Claim: "If Obamacare is fully implemented, 30 million people will still be without health insurance."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage.

Claim: "In two terms in the Missouri General Assembly, Jason Kander passed ZERO bills that were signed into law."
Evidence Summary: With arrogance bordering on opacity and a confrontational leadership style, Rauner squandered this promise. He plunged the state into a destructive 736-day budget stalemate. He ended up taking a humiliating 15.7 percentage-point loss in November to J.B. Pritzker. His political nemesis, veteran Democratic House Speaker Michael Madigan, increased the size of his seat majority to 74-44 over the 71-47 advantage he had when Raunaer took office.

Claim: "Under President Barack Obama, income levels and unemployment numbers are worse now than just about ever for African-Americans."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump remembered his black and Hispanic constituents and what’s good for us. As an African-American who cares about closing income gaps between advantaged and disadvantaged groups, I appreciated the shoutout. The upward trajectory of black, Hispanic and every other group's employment rates has continued a climb that began under President Barack Obama, six years before Trump took office. Presidents have a right to toot their own horns during good economic times because, heaven knows, they’ll get the blame when things turn sour.

Claim: "Due to the sequester, people are going to be unsafe. Homes are going to burn."
Evidence Summary: President Trump is again blaming California's 2018's devastating wildfires on forest mismanagement. The government shutdown, fueled by an impasse over President Trump’s demand for funding for his border wall, is now stretching into its fourth week with no end in sight. Furloughed federal firefighters have been stopped from clearing brush in the forests, in areas that will be increasingly fire-prone when the seasons change. Redlener believes preparedness all comes down to political will and what's required is a stronger dedication to using resources the right way.

Claim: We are the only state in the country that state employees dont contribute [to their pensions].
Evidence Summary: Future recipients of legislative pensions also are the ones responsible for fixing the bigger problem. Dozens of state lawmakers have already opted out of the pension system. Michigan found a middle road to pension reform – making a distinction between already-earned benefits and yet-to-be-earned future benefits. A constitutional amendment making the same distinction in Illinois would be transformative. The contributions ramped up quickly to chip away at plan underfunding and because of demographic trends: As retirees live longer, their lifetime pensions cost more.

Claim: "Says Sheldon Whitehouse said on Senate floor: Everybody in Rhode Island who disagrees with me about Obamacare is an Aryan, is a white supremacist."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, said he did not understand why the phrases ‘white nationalist’ and “white supremacist” had “become offensive” Republicans seemed unmoved, with some pointing to his long history of inflammatory statements and associations with far right and racist figures. Sen. Mitt Romney, R.-Utah, Monday called for King's resignation from Congress. “There is no place in the Republican Party, the Congress or the country for an ideology of racial supremacy of any kind," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said.

Claim: "McDonalds in England only sells organic milk and free-range eggs, which provides more nutritious offerings than in the U.S."
Evidence Summary: National Academy of Medicine report on the influence of marketing on diet and health in youth. Food companies are disproportionately marketing the least healthy foods to children of color. Food ethics has traditionally been outside the realm of parliamentary politics. But experts say the stakes are too high for politicians to remain squeamish about regulation. The Rudd report also found that companies didn’t spend any money to advertise healthy food options of their products on Spanish-language television. “It’s really tough when the cheapest thing to get adequate calories is through junk food,” said Rafael PerezEscamilla, a Yale School of Public Health professor.

Claim: "White House Political Director Patrick Gaspard once served as the ""right-hand man"" for Bertha Lewis, who heads up ACORN."
Evidence Summary: Robert Marcus is now chief of staff for Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.) Amanda Gonzalez Thompson is now communications director for Rep., Doug Collins (R-Ga.) Chris Bond is now managing director at FP1 Strategies. Michael McAdams is now national press secretary at the NRCC. Cherie Paquette Gillan is nowcommunications director for Sen. David Perdue. Scott Parkinson is now VP of government affairs at the Club for Growth. The Daily Beast’s Lachlan Markay has unearthed new details about America Engaged.

Claim: [A] 2009 USDA study found that 87 percent of chicken carcasses tested positive for generic E. coli ... just prior to packaging.
Evidence Summary: The US Department of Agriculture logged 97 meat recalls for serious health hazards in 2018. These “Class 1” recalls – for conditions the USDA deems “a health hazard situation” – are up from 53 in 2013. “The most dangerous types of meat and poultry recalls are on the rise,” said Adam Garber, who co-authored the report. One in six Americans get sick every year from eating contaminated food, leading to at least 450 deaths – 450 from salmonella alone.

Claim: "Says she does the jobs of state auditor, secretary of state and lieutenant governor for less than the price of one of them in Washington state."
Evidence Summary: California Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand says she will decide by the end of March if she wants to run for president. An Iowa county official says jobs are not the issue facing people there. A reader points out the shutdown is not about the resistance but the weakness of organized labor. The full podcast will be up Wednesday morning on CNN.com/Women's Rule of thumb. For more, go to CNN.co/WomensRule of thumb and follow us on Twitter @cnnrules and @jennifer_smith.

Claim: "Under current policies, were going to reduce the overall debt of the United States by $3 trillion over the next 10 years."
Evidence Summary: The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth. But given how our squabbling politicians can’t cooperate on much, who’s to say they’ll be able to fix this ticking bomb? The Trump administration quietly warned that Social Security may have to be slashed 21 percent come 2034.

Claim: "We dont get a lot of calls from this White House I have, frankly, never had a call from them."
Evidence Summary: “I have never had so much support as I have in the last week over my stance for border security ... or, frankly, the wall or the barrier,” he said. Neither the White House switchboard nor the call-in phone line to leave recorded comments is functioning because of the government shutdown. Former President George Bush, who died in November, was in failing health throughout Mr. Trump’s administration and did not have any discussion with the current president about substantive issues.

Claim: "Says that in fiscal year 2010, nearly 80 percent of women served in the Texas Womens Health Program received services from a provider other than a Planned Parenthood clinic."
Evidence Summary: The organization that became Planned Parenthood began in Brooklyn, New York, in 1916. About 41 percent of its funding comes in the form of federal government reimbursements and grants through programs such as Medicaid and Title X. Planned Parenthood cannot cover abortions, except in cases of rape, incest or when the mother's life is in danger. The Hyde Amendment prohibits the use of federal funds for abortion services in the U.S. The organization also receives funding through reimbursements from patients' private insurance companies and from patients who pay out-of-pocket.

Claim: "Earmarks requested in a federal spending bill included $277,000 for potato pest management in Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials. A political group in one town spent hundreds of dollars on booze. In another town, a mayor’s campaign fund paid thousands of dollars to a village employee. To show just how principled they are in their spending, they’ve also money at swine research and manure management.

Claim: "Credit agency says Rep. Gibbs recklessly caused downgrade, higher interest rates."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Mike Quigley, D-Ill., said the agency’s disregard for the Constitution “is beyond troubling.” The White House didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment. The final months of 2018 were dominated by investor worries about slowing global growth and the U.S.-China trade dispute. The potential subpoena is one of many that newly empowered House Democrats are considering, on issues ranging from foreign affairs to the Trump administration”s immigration policies.

Claim: "We're building a nearly $40-billion natural gas pipeline, which is North America's largest and most expensive infrastructure project ever."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump has been briefed on a plan to build 315 miles of barrier along the U.S.-Mexico border. The money was set aside to fund projects all over the country including storm-damaged areas of Puerto Rico through fiscal year 2020. The plan could be implemented if Trump declares a national emergency in order to build the wall and would use more money and build more miles than the administration has requested from Congress. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," the president said.

Claim: "The average state pension, including managers, is $23,000 a year; and just $14,000 for local government workers."
Evidence Summary: Lawmakers gave themselves an extra special benefit allowing them to hoard pension “spikes.’ After serving 20 years in office or turning age 55, they could bank an additional 3 percent boost to their eventual pensions each year. The proposal now moves to the full House, which must approve it before a new class of lawmakers is sworn in on Wednesday. The move to give pay raises to top state officials comes as Pritzker on Monday will inherit a state government with deep financial troubles.

Claim: "Says that Lee Fisher once said, I never met a gun control bill I didnt like."
Evidence Summary: Hill says he filed the bill to repeal the regulations in the Marjory Stoneman Douglas Public Safety Act. Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg spoke out against the new bill in a livestream on social media Tuesday evening. The National Rifle Association, the nation's largest pro-gun special interest group, filed a lawsuit against the state of Florida last year. The bill is unlikely to become law given the GOP's control of the Senate and President Trump's promise to "protect the Second Amendment"

Claim: "Says in 2000, Fox News broke the story of George W. Bushs drunk driving arrest. Who broke it? Fox News."
Evidence Summary: The much-discredited BuzzFeed story alleging that President Trump urged former personal attorney Michael Cohen to lie to Congress. The viral video of the encounter between Covington High School students and Native American protestors in Washington, D.C. last weekend have two things in common and one very important lesson... Both were examples of the media's rush to judgment before the facts surfaced. Check out what else you need to know to start your day with the Fox News First story. Back to the page you came from.

Claim: "Barack Obama ""wants to nearly double the capital gains tax"" increasing taxes on ""mutual funds, 401(k)s"" for ""policemen, firemen, nurses."""
Evidence Summary: Warren's wealth tax proposal reflects the Democratic Party's leftward drift on economic policy and tax issues. Democratic politicians have traditionally shied away from proposing how they would raise revenue, for fear of being branded "tax and spend" liberals. Warren's proposal includes at least three new mechanisms to combat tax evasion, according to a person familiar with the plan. Those are a significant increase in funding for the Internal Revenue Service; a mandatory audit rate requiring a certain number of people who pay the wealth tax to be subject to an audit every year; and a one-time tax penalty for those who have more than $50 million.

Claim: "To comply with non-discrimination laws, the government is forcing people in business to make wedding cakes for anyone."
Evidence Summary: A Colorado baker refused to make a wedding cake for a same-sex ceremony. David Perry: Given the newly entrenched conservative majority at the Supreme Court, Colorado should dismiss its claims against him. Perry: Even though Phillips’ intolerance and bigotry are condemnable, the legal issues are close. He says Colorado should announce that vendors cannot be forced under state law to create expressive items and that custom wedding and birthday cakes are such items. The state needs to recognize that this litigation is not the right vehicle to determine the proper balance between free-speech values and the fight against sexual-orientation discrimination.

Claim: "Says Democratic challenger for his N.C. House seat raised taxes on clothing, school supplies even baby diapers!"
Evidence Summary: Saez and Zucman published an op-ed in the New York Times about Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's, D-N.Y., proposal to raise marginal tax rates to 70 percent on income above $10 million. Republicans are likely to seize on the plan as another example of Democrats looking to tax Americans' hard-earned gains, even though it would apply to only a tiny percentage of the population. The Democratic party platform calls for a tax on carbon dioxide, an energy tax.

Claim: ''I have received more contributions than any other candidate in the race Republican or Democrat.''
Evidence Summary: Chicago mayoral candidates have raised more than $4.5 million so far. More candidates are turning to the crowd-sourcing of low-dollar donors to fund their campaigns. Beto O’Rourke raised $38 million from roughly 800,000 donors in the final full quarter of his 2018 Senate campaign. Howard Dean, who pioneered online fundraising, and John Kerry, who spent millions of his own cash, both tossed aside the pledge. It would take more than 55,000 such max-out donors to put together $150 million.

Claim: "Were the Sunshine State, and were hardly doing any solar energy production."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the issue is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy," he says. "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to," he adds. "This is not the time for us to start focusing on this," he warns. "We need to focus on the future, and we need to make sure that we don't have to wait until the future to make a difference" "We don't want to wait for the future. We want to make the present a better future," the mayor says.

Claim: "In Hawaii, ""they don't have a history of throwing incumbents out of office."""
Evidence Summary: Hawaii state Rep. Scott Nishimoto worked for the late Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii. Nishimoto said he had to learn a lot on his own, since APAICS didn’t have as many leadership programs to help candidates back then as they do now. Ayanna Pressley and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez were the only two candidates to oust Democrats from Congress in primaries last year, a fact that underscores how difficult it is to win a primary against an entrenched incumbent.

Claim: "(Birmingham, Ala.) is the cradle of the civil rights movement."
Evidence Summary: Birmingham mayor Randall Woodfin said the protests came from the “local Jewish community and some of its allies” He called it a reactive and divisive decision and offered to facilitate dialogue in response. Davis responded Monday night by saying she would still come to Birmingham in February for an “alternative event’ The city contributes $1 million to the museum annually, and activists called for leadership changes at the institute on Monday, and protesters gathered at the museum. “Our communities are being overtaken by outside interests and outside groups,” the president of the Birmingham Justice League said.

Claim: "Because of Gov. Scott Walkers budgeting, a greater percentage of general fund tax dollars is going to pay off debt than ever before in our history."
Evidence Summary: David Rothkopf: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. He says the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. Instead, candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt, he says. Rothkapf: To win the anxious middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters.

Claim: "When I took office, the deficit was nearly 10 percent of our economy. Today, its approaching 3 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion. The Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026, three years earlier than the projections in its previous report.

Claim: "We also have, in a park thats not far from here, an ability to build a reservoir that can hold a 30-day water supply for the city of Atlanta."
Evidence Summary: Chicago's multibillion-dollar anti-flooding system is already struggling to keep up with the region’s larger and more frequent storms. By the time I visited in November, McCook Reservoir had filled to capacity five separate times. “I don’t know if this is going to do that much for the city,” says city manager Joe Gilmore. The heavy clay in the soil at this location may hamper how much water is actually absorbed into the ground.

Claim: "It is projected that 3.07 million people will use the train annually. Keep in mind that Amtraks Acela train in Washington D.C., Boston, Philadelphia, New York and Baltimore only had 3.2 million riders in 2010."
Evidence Summary: The train struck the truck shortly before 12:45 p.m. near 1 North Clark Road, north of Indiana Toll Road. The truck was “obstructing the tracks at a grade crossing,” Amtrak spokeswoman said. The train was on its way from Port Huron, Mich., to Chicago, according to Beth Toll. The condition of truck driver was unknown early Monday afternoon, Hamady said. Some major routes to be 208% over capacity by 2022, shows data compiled by Labour.

Claim: "Our businesses have created nearly twice as many jobs in this recovery as they had at the same point in the last recovery, when there was no Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: Over 4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump took office, with the lowest unemployment in half a century and earnings rising at the fastest rate in a decade. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. The anti-Trump economic “experts” continue to warn that a recession is just around the corner, even as they begrudgingly acknowledge the latest figures revealing America's continuing economic vitality.

Claim: "Today, there are more Hoosiers going to work than ever before in the 200-year history of the great state of Indiana."
Evidence Summary: Both parties in the U.S. House of Representatives are calling for an end to the federal government shutdown. They are also calling for the creation of a national commission to address the crisis. The Senate is expected to vote on a bill to end the shutdown in the next few weeks. The House is also expected to pass a bill this week that would require the government to end its shutdown program by the end of the year. The vote will be the first since the Senate passed a bill that would end the government's shutdown.

Claim: No one knows who bought the [38 Studios] bonds. And there was some language put in the bond offer that they must remain anonymous.
Evidence Summary: A number of developers came to the market this week to borrow almost $1.5 billion. “The interest cost has come down quite significantly compared to the double-digit rate they were paying at the end of last year,” said Peng Jie, research analyst at Western Asset Management Company. Roger Ng, the other charged former Goldman banker, was arrested in Malaysia at the request of U.S. authorities and is expected to be extradited, according to John Marzulli, a spokesman for the prosecution.

Claim: "Today, you cant rely on (the retirement fund for public employees), its not funded."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. Illinois’s constitution won’t allow existing pensions to be diminished or impaired. Future pensions must be made affordable, and mayoral candidates must be forced to address that reality. The pension bucket will never be filled so long as the bucket has holes that drain it faster than money can be added. It's a city in desperate condition with a very dark future. We need answers, not nonanswers.

Claim: "Last year, we produced 14 percent less oil on public lands than we did the year before."
Evidence Summary: The report calls on federal and state lawmakers to cut off the $20 billion in subsidies fossil fuels receive each year. The White House last year laid out an ambitious plan to expand oil and gas production in federally controlled waters and lands. The Trump administration has even continued to approve new oil drilling permits during the chaotic four-week partial government shutdown. Still, some industry voices are already seeking to claim to a slice of a Green New Deal. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," Western Energy Alliance says.

Claim: "On my last trip to New Hampshire, I think I met the guy who founded the first and only bank since Dodd-Frank passed, since the financial crisis. One bank in the country."
Evidence Summary: "Nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been a front-runner," he says. "I'm going to go speak to them in this campaign" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before," he adds. "The ironic thing is 30 years ago when I worked in New York covering finance, and he was exactly the same. And he had one great message, about lowering fees"

Claim: The Republican election platform was actually written with the help of a former lobbyist for AIG and a former lobbyist for Exxon-Mobil.
Evidence Summary: Democratic campaign contributors would in all likelihood be supportive of progressive policies that would reduce economic inequality at the margins. But I’m skeptical that they would be enthusiastic about more dramatic policy proposals that would require large tax increases on high incomes. Not since 2008 have donors in the securities and investment industry given a higher percentage to Democratic candidates and committees than to Republicans. The moneyed interests in the Democratic party are in favor of helping America’s poor and of reversing climate change – two positions that sharply distinguish them from the moneyed Interests in the Republican party.

Claim: "Greg Abbott has benefitted from payday lenders who have given him $300,000 and then received a ruling from him that they can operate in a loophole in the law that allows them to charge unlimited rates and fees."
Evidence Summary: The federal government has announced more than $5.5bn worth of projects and commitments since the midyear budget update. Pauline Hanson will withhold preferences from Clive Palmer in his intended seat. A Sydney family has been charged by police for their alleged roles in a syndicate that saw the theft of baby formula, Manuka honey and vitamins worth over $1m. The trial of former ATO assistant commissioner Michael Cranston, charged with abusing public office over his son’s alleged multimillion dollar tax fraud, starts in Sydney.

Claim: "Many of the companies bankrolling the ad campaign against Amendment 4 are recipients of a congressional bailout, in the form of humongous tax refunds earlier this year."
Evidence Summary: Republicans spent the final weeks of the 2018 midterm elections downplaying their tax cut. They instead sought to fire up their base with tough talk on immigration and an unrelenting focus on House Speaker-in-waiting Nancy Pelosi. Of the GOP ads that referred to taxes, 40 percent also mentioned Pelosi, and 35 percent also raised the subject of health care – often suggesting Democrats would raise taxes to pay for a universal health care system. Many ads in which Republicans do mention taxes didn’t focus on the tax legislation they passed in 2017, which provided a steep tax cut for corporations.

Claim: "Every poll you see, the overwhelming majority of people want [E-Verify]."
Evidence Summary: Public-opinion polls are one indicator of issues on which most people find consensus. Despite polling, Congress often refuses to act on these and other issues for political reasons. Even the architects of Medicare for All plans haven’t fully worked out how their systems would function. The same surveys show that when people hear about potential costs and trade-offs that come with Medicare For All, support for the plan falls.“Americans Agree More Than They Realize,” Reason magazine declared in a 2017 headline.

Claim: I have the experience as Senate Budget Chair of cutting $4.5 billion in spending -- to close the deficit while protecting education and health care.
Evidence Summary: The budget deficit could be $985 billion. I want to give Congress $535 million in bonuses to balance the budget. I don't care how much they spend, although I have ideas on that. And I don’t care where they get the money, because messing with the tax rates is nothing but social engineering. Americans want more health security and more affordable coverage, and they don't want insurance companies to discriminate against them if they have a preexisting medical condition. For many in Congress, health care was the number one issue in their district.

Claim: "Over the course of one four-year term, it costs taxpayers more than $1 million simply to operate the governors mansion."
Evidence Summary: Inaugural committee spent more than $1.5 million at his hotel ahead of his 2017 swearing-in, according to internal documents. In New York, the governor's office is spending $65,000 a day to keep the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island operating. "I have never heard anybody getting that kind of fee associated with any inaugural, ever," said the chief of staff for former President George W. Bush's second inaugural. The inspector general recommended that the GSA “conduct a formal legal review” of the matter.

Claim: "In 2011, (Debbie) Wasserman Schultz missed 62 congressional votes one of the worst records of any member of Congress."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi won the speaker’s vote with 220 out of 235 Democratic votes, four more than she needed for a simple majority of the House membership. 12 Democrats, most of them freshmen who had made campaign pledges to oppose her, voted for other Democratic members, while three voted “present.” Four of the dissidents against Pelosi voted for Illinois Rep. Cheri Bustos, the incoming Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee chairwoman. Dozens and dozens of children took up floor seats to watch their parents, or grandparents, get sworn in.

Claim: "43,000 people are going to be kicked out of nursing homes or denied nursing home entrance if the Texas House version of the state budget passes into law."
Evidence Summary: Texas' last legislative session ended with one lawmaker threatening to shoot another after reporting Hispanic protesters to immigration agents. More than a year later, comes a test: whether a humbling 2018 for Texas Republicans will soften one of the most hard-right statehouses in the country. Democratic lawmakers have already announced plans to appeal Judge Reed O’Connor’s ruling that the Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional. If the ruling is upheld, the future for millions of Americans like me who depend on ACA protections to obtain treatment could be bleak.

Claim: "$120,000 will be spent by taxpayers on Charlie Crists political photo-op special session."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials. A political group in one town spent hundreds of dollars on booze. In another town, a mayor’s campaign fund paid thousands of dollars to a village employee. And the next time we meet here, Illinois will have a new governor — who pumped $171 million-plus of his own wealth into the campaign.

Claim: "Of hospitals in Rick Scotts Columbia/HCA health care company, ""A top executive said they even turned away a poor man and left him to die outside their door."""
Evidence Summary: Hacienda HealthCare is ordered to pay for a third-party manager to oversee the center where a patient in a vegetative state gave birth last month. Arizona Governor Doug Ducey said he'd been briefed on the situation and called the reports "deeply troubling" The state Department of Economic Security said it performed health and safety checks on all of the residents at the Hacienda facility after the birth was reported and was working with police on their investigation. The company said it planned to get to the truth of what it called "an unprecedented matter"

Claim: On support for a military strike on Syria
Evidence Summary: U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Monday that President Donald Trump's threat to devastate Turkey's economy if it attacks U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters in Syria underscores America's commitment to its partners. The Syria policy show has become Exhibit A, a case study on why the United States needs a functioning process for designing and implementing foreign policy. Without it, as the entire world can see, what results is an incoherent mess with the potential to further destabilize unstable regions.

Claim: "Says after Hurricane Sandy, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg refused to allow the National Guard into the city to restore civil order because Guardsmen carry guns!"
Evidence Summary: Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said he supports the creation of an armed private police force at his alma mater, Johns Hopkins University. He said it's "ridiculous to think that they shouldn’t be armed" due to Baltimore's high murder rate. Bloomberg's comments raised eyebrows and accusations that his support of a private force on campus was at odds with his views on gun control. He also said he’s still deciding about a 2020 presidential run, saying he will make the decision in January or February.

Claim: Heres something that people never talk about with coach Schiano: Rutgers had the best graduation rate of any Division I football program in America.
Evidence Summary: The U.S. Department of Education defines “graduation rates’ as the percentage of first-time, full-time undergraduates who obtain a bachelor’s degree within six years. This metric fails to consider transfer students, part-time students, or students who first obtain degrees from community colleges. Many graduates are the first in their families to earn a degree and often remain in Chicago to provide stability in our neighborhoods. The editorial essentially argues that CSU does not matter.

Claim: "With the resources it takes to execute just over three months of the Iraq war, we could fully fund the expansion of health care for needy children that Bush vetoed."
Evidence Summary: Trump's argument was sound and was embraced by tens of millions of Americans. It also echoed what another populist, Bernie Sanders, was saying in much of 2016. With this argument, Trump was able to pulverize the foreign policy establishment wings of both parties. The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done, he said. It's time to stop playing politics with the national debt and spend the money on domestic nation-building, Trump said.

Claim: "President-elect Trumps immigration policies are very similar to policies that are sitting right in the Senate and the House today to temporarily suspend immigration from countries that harbor terrorism, to temporarily suspend immigration from Syria until we get better vetting."
Evidence Summary: Trump has pushed legislation that would reduce legal immigration by half. He has also slashed admissions of refugees. Trump’s proposed wall rests on the fantasy that the contiguous 48 states can be sealed off from humans who desperately want to be here. If we want to sharply reduce the number of foreigners coming illegally, there is one and only one plausible way to do it: sharply increase the number allowed to come legally, writes Julian Zelizer. The president has repeatedly linked immigrants to violent crime, despite studies showing otherwise.

Claim: "In Galveston, Texas, they have allowed people to privatize part of their Social Security. And people are building wealth."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Williams said. "I’m total[ly] for border security. If you live in Texas, you get it. We want people to realize the American dream, but they need to do it legally,” Williams continued. "And the ironic thing is 30 years ago when I worked in New York covering finance, And he was exactly the same. And I'm sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments"

Claim: "Spending increases, not tax cuts, are the major cause of the federal budget deficit."
Evidence Summary: The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth, which in turn produces increasingly higher revenues several years down the road. The Tax Foundation now predicts deficits will increase by $900 billion — double its original forecast.“We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.”

Claim: "Says Reps. Rush Holt, Frank Pallone and Bill Pascrell are willing to jeopardize seniors access to coverage by gutting $741 billion from Medicare to pay for a big-government healthcare takeover."
Evidence Summary: House Budget Committee Chairman John Yarmuth asked Congress' top economist to sketch out the options for a government takeover. The Kentucky Democrat implicitly sketched out the political game plan: enact socialized medicine before patients and taxpayers understand what they’ll be losing. The VA is preparing to shift billions of dollars from government-run veterans’ hospitals to private health care providers, setting the stage for the biggest transformation of the veterans' medical system in a generation. The popularity of Medicare for all soars when people hear it would guarantee health insurance as a right. But it becomes a political loser if people think it would lead to treatment delays.

Claim: "Says Keene, N.H., requested a military-grade armored personnel truck, citing their annual Pumpkin Festival as a possible target for terrorists."
Evidence Summary: Muslim group calls for full prosecutions against the four people accused of plotting an attack. Three Rochester-area men and a 16-year-old who had access to homemade explosives and firearms were arrested. The small community has been dogged by allegations on right-wing websites that it is a terrorist training camp. The tiny town of about 200 people has long been the subject of unsupported claims of terrorist activity by Right-wing media outlets and commentators. All four are scheduled to return to court on Jan. 23 at 11 a.m.

Claim: "Horse racing could boost Georgias economy by $1 billion a year and create 10,000 to 20,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers’ claims jumped. The arrival last year of 14 newly elected Democrats made it possible for Democrats to expand Medicaid. Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product, according to the Virginia Economic Development Partnership. It ranks 26th in income equality, according the American Community Survey. The upcoming election also sets the stage for a struggle over Virginia’s future between those who believe that prosperity lies in wooing more businesses and those like Mr. Carter.

Claim: "I have a perfect voting record from organizations like the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion and all the other veterans service organizations."
Evidence Summary: "I am not here for any type of political, grandiose agenda. I'm here to serve," he said. The shifts, while perhaps inevitable, leave some worrying that the hard work of pressing for the complicated and expensive health care needs, and other issues, will lack a generation of new leaders. “These smaller groups don’t do policy advocacy while the Big Six have been carrying all the water,” said Kristofer Goldsmith, an assistant director for policy and government affairs at Vietnam Veterans of America.

Claim: "For the amount of money Hillary Clinton would like to spend on refugees, we could rebuild every inner city in America."
Evidence Summary: "I'm going to fight for other people's kids as hard as I would fight for my own," Gillibrand said. "I believe that anybody who wants to work hard enough should be able to get whatever job training they need to earn their way into the middle class" "Who gives you a dollar for a wall when the Democratic Party supported 25 billion dollars in the past? We’re not going to negotiate with people who see the world this way," said Ann Coulter. Coulter said she would rather deport Dreamers than MS-13 gang members.

Claim: "In the history of the United States, 168 presidential nominees have been filibustered, 82 blocked under President Obama, 86 blocked under all the other presidents."
Evidence Summary: Senate Democrats previously eliminated the filibuster for federal judicial nominees below the Supreme Court level during the Obama administration. Once they claimed their current Senate majority, Republicans, in response, eliminated filibuster for Supreme Court nominees as well. The question is whether Senate Republicans are going to do anything more to overcome this deliberate political obstruction than they did in the last two years. The White House, along with Senate GOP leaders, has made appointing conservative judges and justices a key priority. Under the Trump administration, 85 federal judges have been installed, including Associate Supreme Court Justices Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.

Claim: "Palin ""inherited a city with zero debt, but left it with indebtedness of over $22-million."""
Evidence Summary: Bennett said that Cortina had partnered with another firm and was removed from the tow list. Bennett said it is legal to pay legal expenses out of a campaign committee. Snyder sought for a $10,000 loan from Cortina, who was a friend and political backer. The pension hole is one of the most pressing problems the city will face during the next four years, a potential financial albatross that starts at nearly $300 million in 2020 and grows to nearly $1 billion by 2023. The size of the impending shortfall defies neat, politically safe solutions.

Claim: "After hiring a campaign manager in 2006, I got this $100 and something fee ... for hazardous materials."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials. Rep. Maxine Waters' campaign may have some financial issues of its own to sort out. Watchdog groups have raised questions about the propriety of campaign money financially supporting a family member, as well as Waters raising contributions in excess of federal limits.

Claim: "In 2009, pre-Hillary, ISIS was not even on the map."
Evidence Summary: Vice President Mike Pence: "We are not waging a war like we did on 9/11" Secretary of State Pompeo: "The age of self-inflicted American shame is over" There were more than 8,500 terrorist attacks worldwide in 2017, though the total declined 23 percent from the previous year. The report also found that terror threats had grown more complex as ISIS lost territory and sought to inspire simpler but still deadly attacks on Western targets. The State Department credited multiple administrations over the past 17 years with preventing elaborate attacks and, more recently, in rolling back the territory once occupied by ISIS.

Claim: "Nobody has been talking about it (Medicaid fraud), focused on it, or paying attention to it."
Evidence Summary: Clinics are torn between informing patients about the potential risks and unnecessarily scaring them. Many Americans who benefit from government assistance are literally in denial. In 2011, Cornell political scientist Suzanne Mettler surveyed the number of recipients of government benefits who deny receiving benefits. Without action from Congress, 21 million seniors and individuals with disabilities will take a hit, says Better Medicare Alliance, a health care advocacy group for seniors and those with disabilities. The group says it is working with the White House to address the issue.

Claim: "Rick Scott has destroyed over 100,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. This growth was cheered by Alliance for American Manufacturing president Scott Paul, who credited the Trump administration’s protectionist policies. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being “the greatest jobs president that God ever created”

Claim: "For every week that (state lawmakers are) able to cut off our timeline, it saves (Georgia taxpayers) approximately $100,000."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom's new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. The governor laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation. The original estimate that the partial shutdown would subtract 0.1 percentage point from growth every two weeks has now been doubled to a 0. 1 percentage point subtraction every week, an official who asked not to be named said. The administration had initially counted just the impact from the 800,000 federal workers not receiving their paychecks.

Claim: "Says that when President Obama visited El Paso, he pronounced that the border with Mexico and the United States was safer than it ever was in history."
Evidence Summary: President Trump traveled to a border town in Texas today to make his case for a border wall. CNN’s chief White House correspondent – who seemingly uploaded the video from a local Burger King – is in Texas awaiting Trump's border visit. Trump discussed the nonexistent wall in San Antonio before he offered three years’ protection for the so-called Dreamers in exchange for $5.7 billion for the wall. The president may have intended to refer to El Paso, a Texas border city he referenced last week in an almost identical anecdote.

Claim: "Says Texas gained 21,000 doctors due to tort reform."
Evidence Summary: Researchers sketched a vivid line Friday linking the dollars spent by drugmakers to woo doctors around the country to a vast opioid epidemic. For each three additional payments made to physicians per 100,000 people in a county, opioid overdose deaths were up 18 percent. A bill has already been filed that would make it illegal for Texas doctors to perform abortions except in cases to save the life of the patient. In reality, less than one-third of 1 percent of abortions result in a major complication.

Claim: "Technically, (Ted Cruz is) not even an American."
Evidence Summary: In October, Trump said he could "no longer call" Warren "Pocahontas" because she has no Indian blood. On Saturday, Trump delivered a unifying statement in reaction to a naturalization ceremony in which he had participated that day. The speech described U.S. citizenship as having “no distinctions or race or class or gender or background,” adding, “we are all equal” and “one team”“These migrants aren’t a threat to anybody, not even Donald Trump,’ Sisa said.

Claim: "Rubio's ""got more experience than Obama had."""
Evidence Summary: Frank Bruni: Andrew Gillum should be commended for his courage to run and offer Florida voters a real choice in the primary. He says Biden struck a uniquely bipartisan and pragmatic tone as he joked about criticism he's received for getting along with Republicans. “I get in trouble, I read in the New York Times that one of my problems is, if I ever run for president, I like Republicans: Okay well bless me, Father, for I have sinned,” Biden said, crossing himself.

Claim: "Says no, youre wrong, responding to the assertion that stop-and-frisk was ruled unconstitutional in New York."
Evidence Summary: Vermont Supreme Court ruled that individuals subjected to unlawful searches and seizures may sue the state for compensation. David Perry: This is a rightful repudiation of the U.S. Supreme Court. Perry: The Vermont Supreme Court refuses to wave away grave injustices by blindly trusting the police. Other state supreme courts—and SCOTUS—should follow Eaton’s lead, he says. The case involves police-state tactics against fundamental First Amendment rights, Perry writes. The allegations of police spying require mayoral intervention, Perry says.

Claim: "Florida doesnt regulate assault weapons or .50 caliber rifles or large-capacity ammunition magazines. It doesnt require a permit to purchase a gun. It doesnt require any registration, whatsoever."
Evidence Summary: Gun sellers in Washington have joined forces with the National Rifle Association and the Second Amendment Foundation to sue the state in an attempt to overturn the law. The state joins several others that have moved to limit access to semiautomatic weaponry following a spate of mass shootings in recent years. In most states, including over the border in Idaho and Oregon, you must be 18 to buy an assault rifle. But Republican-dominant Florida passed a law after a school shooting to increase the age limit to 21.

Claim: "Texas is home to millions of Latinas, but the state has never elected a Latina to Congress."
Evidence Summary: Veronica Escobar is El Paso’s first woman in Congress, and she joins Houston's Sylvia Garcia as Texas' first Latinas elected to the House. Garcia reminded Twitter users of Thursday's significance and wrote as one of her hashtags, #LaCongresista. Under her signature issues, she lists advocating for women, touting her support for health and abortion access and her work to pass a state bill making revenge porn a crime. She will be representing the areas of Houston and Pasadena, Texas.

Claim: "Studies suggest the 2017 College Football Playoff Championship game will bring about 1,700 to 1,800 full-time jobs."
Evidence Summary: U.S. employers last month added 312,000 new jobs, the fastest pace since February. Software and application developers remained the most sought-after tech workers. The number of brewery workers rose by 158.3 percent from 2008 to 2017, more than 29 times the national employment growth for all occupations of 5.4 percent. The share of American adults working or looking for jobs rose from 62.9 percent to 63.1 percent, highest since September 2017, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Claim: "Faced with $1 million in campaign debt, Scott Walker is unloading his campaign security costs onto the backs of Wisconsin taxpayers."
Evidence Summary: Walker, suffering defeat for the first time since a 1990 run for state Assembly, plans to hit the road as a speaker advocating for conservative issues. Walker also won't rule out a future run for U.S. Senate or even governor again in 2022. "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate.Regardless of what Walker does next, he leaves the governor's office having fundamentally altered the state.

Claim: "George Allen had 40,000 earmarks while he was a senator."
Evidence Summary: Bloomberg said his wealth allowed him to make decisions without being beholden to donors. Black members of Congress sent on average $37.9 million to counties with large or majority black populations, compared to $10 million or less among white members. The most frequent beneficiaries: historically black colleges and universities. Members of Congress still hear from their constituents, and those who are held up as symbols of achievement within a particular racial or ethnic group may feel additional pressure to address that group’s concerns.

Claim: "Says Barack Obama is a hypocrite for criticizing President George W. Bushs drone attack program, then using it aggressively as president."
Evidence Summary: The president was reacting to McChrystal's interview with ABC's Martha Raddatz. “I don’t think he tells the truth,” Mcchrystal said when asked if he believes the president is a liar. This comes as Trump meets with congressional leaders today to talk about border security and presumably come up with a plan to end the partial government shutdown.“Not only do we have a recalcitrant child in charge of the greatest country in the world, We have a plethora of good Christian people who continue to back his lying antics,’ one woman wrote to me.

Claim: "Says 160,000 kids stay home every day because they are afraid to go to school because of bullying."
Evidence Summary: Researchers found a correlation between voter preference and bullying and observed teasing across one state. Their findings could lend credence to the anecdotal reports from teachers around the country after the election. The Human Rights Campaign surveyed 50,000 American middle and high schoolers, and 79 percent of them said bullying incidents had increased since the start of Trump’s campaign. Findings come at a time when school bullying rates nationally have remained relatively flat, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The Children's Commissioner for Wales, Prof Sally Holland, believes statutory recording of incidents would make schools more accountable.

Claim: "Wisconsin pays criminal defense lawyers who represent the indigent $40 per hour, the lowest in the country."
Evidence Summary: The cases we handled all took place in New York, which has among the strongest labor laws. How many similar and worse situations emerge every day in other states, including those with less worker-protective landscapes? A 2017 study by the Economic Policy Institute of wage violations in the 10 most populous states found that 2.4 million workers in those states lose $8 billion annually to minimum wage violations. In 43 states, defendants are charged for public defender-related fees, causing many to waive this critical constitutional right.

Claim: "I differed with my party on business legislation, on consumer protection, and on free trade agreements."
Evidence Summary: “Our two party system created a voting process which is an illusion, and a government that fluctuates between two extremes – each extreme annulling any progress made by the opposition in the prior administration,” Brown says. “I never pit workers in Mexico or France again against workers in the United States or Bangladesh. I never use racist terms like he does.” “We ran on many of those same things, the American people right now are united, that they want sensible solutions to deal with the things that really cause them pain and suffering. And now it's our responsibility to actually do something about it," he adds.

Claim: "In 2013, Dan Patrick voted against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free."
Evidence Summary: This is not, however, the first time Trump has used the epidemic of sexual assault, or those who have been forced to endure it, for his own political gain. From facilitating a 90-minute press conference with Juanita Broaddrick, Kathleen Willey, Kathy Shelton, and Paula Jones, to mocking Christine Blasey Ford during a campaign rally, it’s not just women this thrice-married president finds dispensable... it's their pain. Trump is willing to disregard Leigh Corfman, Wendy Miller, Debbie Wesson Gibson, Gloria Thacker Deason, Beverly Young Nelson, Tina Johnson, Gena Richardson and Becky Gray and endorse Roy Moore.

Claim: "The claim ... that we plan to set up panels of bureaucrats with the power to kill off senior citizens ... is a lie, plain and simple."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Madigan says. "There is no one who can deny the effectiveness of that. Let's just do that and propose that and get some funding for that type of measure," he adds. "I will be leaving as soon as possible and know of businesses that are planning to leave," says Donna Ocasek, Crystal Lake. "This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for," says Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth.

Claim: "Obamacare is a massive, massive income redistribution with $250 billion a year in Medicaid expansion (and) in the subsidy structure thats basically being paid for by people on Medicare, through Medicare cuts, and a lot of tax increases."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all’ and why, to succeed, those Democrats still have a lot of work to do. A majority (56%) supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS), called Medicare-for-all.

Claim: Says Kurt Schrader supports Obamas sequester but wont cut $1.6 million to fund new video games.
Evidence Summary: Rep. Adam Kinzinger: "I didn't come out here to play shutdown politics. I came out to actually get some things done" Rep. Kurt Schrader: "That’s going to be too late" for Pelosi to say she will leave after four years. Rep. Ed Royce: "It's time for a new generation of leaders to take the lead in this country" "I think shutdowns are stupid. And I don't like it," Rep. Steve King says.

Claim: "In the last year, Wisconsin ranked third in Midwest job growth."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Average hourly pay improved 3.2 percent from a year ago, up from average wage growth of 2.7 percent at the end of 2017.

Claim: "The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota under Gov. Scott Walkers policies."
Evidence Summary: Walker divided and deeply scarred Wisconsin. "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in up to 13,000 new jobs and a $10 billion investment. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor.

Claim: "FIFA pressured Brazil into passing a so-called Budweiser bill, allowing beer sales in soccer stadiums."
Evidence Summary: Bolsonaro has said he wants to end an ‘industry’ of environmental fines. He has also suggested Brazil could exit the Paris Agreement on climate change. The far-right nationalist pitched himself as a flag-bearer for Latin America’s new conservative vanguard. Brazil has become the apocalyptic vanguard that signals how radical this moment is – one with the power to worsen the climate crisis at top speed and blight the entire planet. The Burton Albion manager, Nigel Clough, managed to retain his sense of humour on Wednesday night, despite his team's crushing 9-0 defeat by Manchester City.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama has put (up) a stop sign against oil drilling, against any kind of exploration offshore or in Alaska."
Evidence Summary: Despite Shutdown, Trump Administration Continued Effort To Expand Alaska Oil Drilling. E-mails obtained by Alaska Public Media show a BLM employee was contacting Alaska community leaders to schedule meetings related to oil lease sales in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. The Obama White House vehemently opposed opening up these territories, subjecting development requests to endless delays.

Claim: "Ive created over 40,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Powell's remarks came on a day when the government reported that the economy created a sizzling 312,000 jobs in December. “We’ve made a lot of progress. In 20-plus years as an executive and investor, I did very well closing deals, building companies and creating jobs," he said. "I went out and got a good job to support my family to allow them to be happy and healthy and not worry," he added. "Every day our people care for thousands of patients and I am so proud that their fantastic commitment and hard work has been recognised"

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton has been a champion of globalist trade agreements. ... Worst of all, they are now pushing the disastrous 5,000-page Obamatrade the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement."
Evidence Summary: A common 2016 campaign riff was his promise to bring jobs back, get companies to return production to the U.S., and scrap NAFTA. Interestingly, it also got the attention of progressive trade critics on the left who had also been calling to renegotiate NAFTA for decades. Lori Wallach, director at Public Citizen’s Global Trade, explains how their critique of corporate-rigged trade policies managed to align in some surprising ways with the president's trade nationalist agenda. While NAFTA 2.0 shows some progress, there are still a lot of improvements they want to see made.

Claim: Says Jeb Bush flip-flop-flip(ped) on immigration.
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence have proposed a deal to end the government shutdown. The proposal would give undocumented immigrants a path to legal status. The White House says the proposal is not an amnesty, but a way to secure the nation's borders. But critics say it is an amnesty for illegal immigrants who were brought to the U.S. by their parents or grandparents as children and should not be given the right to apply for legal status in the first place. It is also a way for the White House to pressure Democrats into backing down on their policy of separating families.

Claim: "Ganley said that if elected, he wants to cut the dickens out of Social Security, Medicare and Veterans benefits."
Evidence Summary: Under a law signed by President Obama several years ago, the White House’s Office of Management and Budget is required to make across-the-board cuts to other programs if any new deficit-increasing legislation is enacted. “A vote AGAINST the Democratic Rules package is a vote to let Mick Mulvaney make across the board cuts, unilaterally reversing Democratic initiatives and funding increases,” Hammill tweeted at Khanna. Khanna had tweeted his opposition to the measure earlier: “I will be voting NO on the Rules package with #PayGo.”

Claim: "Says Marco Rubio opposes immigration reform. Worse, Rubio supports Donald Trump. His plan would deport 800,000 children, destroying families."
Evidence Summary: Trump offered a three-year extension in protections for roughly 700,000 “dreamers’ who were brought to the US illegally as children. He also said there would “no big push” to deport those already living in the US without permission. Some conservatives dismissed that offer as being akin to an amnesty. Ann Coulter, the far-right author, said in a tweet: “Trump proposes amnesty. We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” The former Florida governor was one of several candidates Trump defeated in the party’s 2016 presidential primary contest.

Claim: "Since 1980, over 145 incidents have been documented of suction entrapment in swimming pools and spas, including 36 deaths of children."
Evidence Summary: Police estimate the girl was in the tub for up to eight hours, court documents show. When police responded to the house, they found soiled bedding, garbage-covered floors and an overwhelming stench of urine. A woman drowning in thick, muddy water that was rising up to her neck was rescued just in time by Florida deputies who raced through thick fog to find her. A young adult slipped and fell through the hole onto the rocky beach below. 14 foot waves that were 9 seconds apart filled the area and swept him out then underwater.

Claim: "Countries with a higher minimum wage than the United States $7.25 an hour include Denmark at $21, Australia at$15.81, Germany at$11and France at$12.35."
Evidence Summary: Three states — California, Massachusetts and New York — have mandated minimum wage increases that will reach $15 an hour. A $15 minimum wage is in place or planned in Seattle, Washington DC, Minneapolis, St Paul, California, New York state and Massachusetts. Major private sector employers like Facebook, Target and Amazon have pledged to increase their minimum wages to $15. All told, more than 22 million workers have won more than $68 billion in raises since the Fight for $15 started. The TUC also called for an increase in minimum wage levels to £10 an hour "as quickly as possible"

Claim: "The president has given 1,100 special waivers to his friends for Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump offered congressional Democrats a new deal Saturday. The deal would provide $5.7 billion in funding for his border wall and re-open several federal agencies. It would also provide three years of protections for immigrants who were brought to the country illegally as children. President Trump instructed administration officials Wednesday to investigate how to prevent surprise medical bills, broadening his focus on drug prices. "Reading the tea leaves, I think there's big change coming," a health care expert said of Trump's approach.

Claim: "Says that three of these five Republicans -- Ben Westlund, Rob Patridge, Max Williams, Lane Shetterly, Lynn Lundquist -- later became Democrats."
Evidence Summary: Bipartisan "problem solvers" caucus includes at least four members of the House. Most have been willing to buck their party in the past, including on high-profile issues. Two who publicly refused to vote for Trump: New York Rep. John Katko and Washington Rep. Jaime Herrera Buetler. Three who represent the only House districts won by Hillary Clinton that Republicans still hold: Hurd, Katko, Brian Fitzpatrick. The group also includes lawmakers like Elise Stefanik, who has been a rising star in the GOP.

Claim: "Proposed cuts in the House farm bill mean 2 million less people on food stamps, 210,000 children will not receive school lunches or breakfasts."
Evidence Summary: 38 million Americans on food stamps will be getting their February benefits a bit early because of the government shutdown. Due to concerns that the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program could run out of money in the latter half of February, the U.S. Department of Agriculture will urge states to pay out the benefit by Jan. 20 at the latest. “This is very similar to what we have done in disaster situations such as hurricanes,” Secretary Sonny Perdue told reporters on Tuesday. A disruption in food stamp benefits "is cause for very substantial concern," wrote Dottie Rosenbaum, senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

Claim: "If it is enacted, the Senate immigration bill is going to make the Border Patrol bigger than the FBI -- you could put one agent every 250 feet."
Evidence Summary: "If they knew they couldn't come through, they wouldn’t even start,” Trump said at the meeting with Cabinet secretaries and top advisers. NBC reported Monday that according to statistics from the U.S. Department of Customs and Border Protection only six immigrants on a terror watchlist have been detained in six months at the Mexican border. “Are we really going to put a steel or a concrete barrier that’s going to cut millions of Americans off from the Rio Grande River? Are we really seriously now talking about the military coming in and enforcing eminent domain?”

Claim: At my first Lets Get to Work Day we sold out; more than 240 dozen doughnuts by 8:30 a.m.
Evidence Summary: The government shutdown became the longest in American history overnight, leaving 800,000 federal employees furloughed or working without pay. In light of the struggles federal employees may be having in trying to live without pay, the Capital Area Food Bank is holding five free pop-up markets in the Washington, D.C. area. The markets are being held in Giant stores in Virginia, Washington and Maryland, offering fresh produce and shelf-stable food items for the first 250 federal workers who arrive between 9 a.m and 12 p.m. Saturday.

Claim: "Congressional lawmakers earn their salaries FOR LIFE, which for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi would add up to $803,700 Dollars a year for LIFE including FREE medical."
Evidence Summary: Ross says federal workers should be able to obtain bridge loans to tide them over until the government reopens. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi denounced what she called a "let them eat cake" attitude from the commerce secretary. New U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wants to tax the richest Americans at a rate of 70 percent on their income above $10 million. If Democrats allow all of the personal income tax cuts to lapse, it will result in a significant tax hike of $2,058 per year for a family of four earning $73,000.

Claim: "President Obamas proposal calls for serious cuts in our own long-term carbon emissions, but China and India will still be allowed to increase their emissions."
Evidence Summary: Between 2005 and 2017, CO2 emissions in the U.S. fell by about 14 percent. Administration officials have touted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels, as well as to defend the president’s decision last year to withdraw the US from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change. The latest emissions data indicate that this is unlikely to happen. The analysis comes on the heels of two gut-wrenching climate reports, one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies.

Claim: "I have never asked for a single earmark, pork barrel project for my state of Arizona."
Evidence Summary: “This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for," he said. "I have the biggest anti-corruption proposals since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington, you think?" "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he added. “The people of CA ― folks in Paradise ― should not be victims to partisan bickering.” “It is about money in politics, it's about the influence of money.’

Claim: "Starting in 2011, ""you will be required to pay taxes"" on ""the value of whatever health insurance you are given by the company."""
Evidence Summary: For 2019, the tax was delayed, resulting in lower costs for seniors, individuals with disabilities. Without delay of the tax for 2020, these beneficiaries will pay the price. Congress, don’t let our seniors down. Delay the 2020 health insurance tax now and preserve seniors’ access to Medicare Advantage. The Better Medicare Alliance is urging Congress to delay the 2020 Health Insurance Tax (HIT) until after the midterm elections in November. For more information, go to www.bettermedicare.org.

Claim: "Barack Obama was ""a trial attorney for ACORN."""
Evidence Summary: Gay rights activist who donated $70,000 to Obama's campaign was charged with sexual abuse. The case was dismissed after the alleged victim did not testify. Prosecutors refiled the charges after this, court records stated. Chicago aldermen – members of the City Council – have been convicted of political corruption since 1973. The charges against Chicago Ald. Edward Burke, 14th, are related to a wiretapped call he made to a restaurant owner about a tax work deal. He is accused of trying to extort the restaurant owner.

Claim: "When I ran against incumbent President Gerald Ford, you know how much money we raised? None."
Evidence Summary: "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself," Bloomberg says. "I have the biggest anti-corruption proposals since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington, you think?" "I used only my own money so I didn't have to ask anybody what they wanted in return for a contribution" "I think not having to adjust what you say and what you work on based on who financed your campaign is one of the things that the public really likes"

Claim: "Says Charlie Crist wants felons who commit a heinous crime such as intentional permanent disfigurement of a child, you walk out of jail, you immediately get to vote."
Evidence Summary: Up to 1.4 million people could be affected by the new measure, but there are likely to be more challenges in implementing it. The amendment says voting rights are restored “upon completion of all terms of sentence including parole or probation,” but it’s not immediately clear what “all terms” of a criminal sentence are. Local election officials say they haven’t gotten any guidance from state election officials, but many say they will register any voter who swears on their voter registration form that they are eligible to vote.

Claim: "Because of (the 1994 crime bill), we had a 25-year low in crime, a 33-year low in the murder rate, and listen to this, because of that and the background check law, a 46-year low in the deaths of people of gun violence."
Evidence Summary: Harris' roots are in law enforcement, first as district attorney for San Francisco and then attorney general of California. Carrying the banner of law enforcement for Democrats is akin to entering a Republican primary with a resume advocating tax hikes. Four years ago, Hillary Clinton struggled to explain her support of the 1994 crime bill, which was one component of her husband President Bill Clinton’s commitment to law and order. Hogg also said that reversing the bill "is going to cost lives and the blood is on your hands"

Claim: "In 2009, we cut state spending in real terms for the first time in 150 years."
Evidence Summary: After two years of unified government under the party that formerly claimed to care about fiscal facts and rectitude, the nation faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. Between the capital’s debt obsession, the Republican takeover of the House, and a hard right turn in state governments, America was about to embark on a period of cutbacks in government spending unprecedented in the face of high unemployment.

Claim: "In every poll, John Cornyn always loses to any conservative the voters have heard about."
Evidence Summary: North Carolina House race marred by fraud may not be resolved until the fall. "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done" "A Republican could beat a Democrat in a city if the Republican is for impeachment and the Democrat is against it" "We gotta stay focused on what matters to us. And what matter to us is that everybody gets a fighting chance" "It's not like I have tested this out with some focus groups, or done a lot of polling"

Claim: "For the last decade, funding in the health and human services budget has grown at twice the rate as other parts of the budget, and I think that context is important."
Evidence Summary: NHS will increase its budget in England from £115bn to £135bn by 2023-24. But experts and doctors’ leaders warned that May and Stevens’s vision risked being undermined and reduced to a set of ‘groundless aspirations’ Turning the plan into reality will be ‘extremely tough’, one leading health expert said. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years — and there’S still a health care worker shortage.

Claim: "In Wisconsin, deaths from domestic violence are at the highest in 10 years."
Evidence Summary: The state ranks 20th in population but has landed among the top 15 states for drunken-driving arrests every year from 2005 through 2017. In 2015 alone, nearly 200 people were killed and an additional 2,900 were injured in alcohol-related crashes in the state. And last year the U.S. Centers for Disease Control released a survey in which one in four Wisconsin respondents reported binge-drinking at least once in the past month, the second-highest rate among the states behind only North Dakota.

Claim: Says there is a plan formulated by Chair (Lynn) Peterson and the cities in Clackamas County to further increase this fee in three years and split it up on projects between the county and cities.
Evidence Summary: Village staff have suggested an increase of $6.50 per square foot for new single-family home construction. Staff also have pushed for a new policy, requiring basement square footage for finished spaces to be factored into the overall building permit fee. Trustees did not raise objections to the proposals, but they are planning to discuss the recommendations further during a committee meeting in March. The Clackamas County Sheriff's Office released the names of the victims as: Olivia Lynn Rose Gago, 9 months old; Shaina E. Sweitzer, 31; Jerry William Bremer, 66; and Pamela Denise Bremer.

Claim: "For the state of Florida, there is not an additional cost with implementation of the Common Core standards."
Evidence Summary: Some school leaders have complained about increased costs they've been forced to cover. State fiscal analysts project tax revenues will grow by about 2.5 percent each year for the new two-year budget starting in July. Department of Child Services is seeking about two-thirds of that money to keep paying for hundreds of new child welfare caseworkers added over the last few years. Current misconceptions include the idea that “schools are not getting proper funding as well as getting less than they have been allotted.”

Claim: "Education Week says Obama 'hasn't made a significant mark on education,' is 'elusive' on accountability, and a 'staunch defender of the existing public school monopoly.'"
Evidence Summary: Jonathan Chait: The hedge fund class of “education reformers” has long been the most important influence on Democratic Party education policy. Chait's wife works in charter school advocacy, which he’s disclosed in the past, though he didn’t in this piece. He says the bad blood has a long history, stemming in particular back to a watershed referendum in 1978 that capped California's property taxes. The state of California spends comparatively little on education per pupil.

Claim: "Weve had about 3,000 murders in connection with lax border security."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post offered a series of “fact checks” following President Trump’s primetime address from the Oval Office on border security. One of them raised eyebrows, as it complained the president's crime stats were too comprehensive. The president “needs to create a sense of crisis to justify this costly boondoggle,” said Stephen Colbert. “Are we really seriously now talking about the military coming in and enforcing eminent domain? Does the Republican Party really want to preside over soldiers taking away Americans’ private property?”

Claim: "Huckabee ""granted 1,033 pardons and commutations . . . more clemencies than the previous three governors combined."""
Evidence Summary: Former Illinois Gov. Brown granted a historic 1,332 pardons and 283 commutations during his final two terms as part of a push to scale back the state’s tough-on-crime approach. But the court blocked 10 of those requests in the final weeks of the Brown administration, which ended this month. The detective who investigated the murder of Mr. Allen wrote in a letter to Governor Haslam, published by NewsChannel5 on Friday, that she should not be granted clemency.

Claim: "The Internal Revenue Service spent $60,000 on a Star Trek training video."
Evidence Summary: Air traffic controller Corey Soignet gets a look at his wages for the past two weeks. He's learned the "hyperfocus" needed to help guide aircraft through night skies and brutal storms. The delegation mainly listened to the federal workers and peppered them with questions. They asked them to talk about the ways their fellow employees have been impacted and cite examples of when they’ve heard outcry from the public. "Now my household has no income. I have no pay, coming from a month that was more expensive that a normal month," one worker said.

Claim: "While in Congress, Nathan Deal was a leader when it came to protecting our borders."
Evidence Summary: “The symbol of America should be the Statue of Liberty, not a 30-foot wall.” “The Steel Barrier, or Wall, should have been built by previous administrations long ago. They never got it done - I will. Without it, our Country cannot be safe. Criminals, Gangs, Human Traffickers, Drugs & so much other big trouble can easily pour in. It can be stopped cold!" "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done."

Claim: The 2009 stimulus bill failed to get people back to work.
Evidence Summary: Over 800,000 federal employees across several agencies have been furloughed or, if deemed essential, continue to work without pay during the shutdown. Federal workers will likely receive retroactive pay once the government reopens, but many are struggling to pay rent and buy necessities in the interim. The S&P 500 plummeted 38% in 2008, its worst year since the Great Depression. Unemployment would peak at 10% in 2009, doubling in barely a year. Annual GDP growth never topped 3% in the Obama era.

Claim: "Since 1995, the top 400 wealthiest families have seen their incomes go up 400 percent and their tax rates go down 40 percent."
Evidence Summary: The lower half of income distribution has been shut out from economic growth. For the highest 0.1 percent of earners, incomes have grown more than 300 percent. And for the tippy-top 0.001 percent — the 2,300 richest Americans — incomes have grew by more than 600 percent. Just as the point of taxing carbon is not to raise revenue but to reduce carbon emissions, high tax rates for sky-high incomes do not aim at funding Medicare for All. They aim at preventing an oligarchic drift that will continue undermining the social compact and risk killing democracy.

Claim: "Actually, Reagan was a Democrat before he was a Republican."
Evidence Summary: "Whatever happens, I'm always going to know that fact," he says. "I don't know that you need to go as far to the middle as some people in the past have ... it's not the '90s anymore" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing when you look at who is representing us” "So write that down, that Bob Dole might come back and run for the Senate"

Claim: On immigration reform
Evidence Summary: The American people chose Donald Trump – the ultimate political outsider – to be their president in 2016 and solve problems affecting hardworking taxpayers. For more than 20 years, Washington politicians on both sides of the aisle have talked about the problem, but never solved it. This country has been waiting for comprehensive immigration reform that benefits both parties’ positions for more than two decades. Now's a good time to finally do it, says Harlan York, an immigration attorney and author of the book "Three Degrees of Law"

Claim: "It took us four years to balance the budget. Then I gave you four surplus budgets for the first time in more than 70 years, paid $600 billion down on the national debt."
Evidence Summary: President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes.” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and Bush wasn’t re-elected. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The state of the union is good. Except that after two years of unified government under the party that formerly claimed to care about fiscal facts and rectitude, the nation faces a $1 trillion deficit.

Claim: "Says Jon Corzine gave away 14 percent raises over 4 years and he stood on the front steps of the Capitol at a public-sector union rally and said, I will fight to get you a great contract."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker is moving to enact pay increases state workers say they’re owed and didn’t receive under Republican Bruce Rauner. He took over a state government that’s $7.5 billion behind in paying its bills, and dealing with Illinois’ troubled finances could loom over almost everything he does. “We’ve obviously going to be entering into negotiations at some point in the near future to discuss wages going forward and all the other issues,” he said at his first news conference.

Claim: "Obamacare is the biggest job-killer in this country -- millions of Americans have lost their jobs, have been forced into part-time work."
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes. At its peak, just after Obamacare was passed but before it went into effect, nearly one-in-five Americans lacked health insurance. Uninsured rates were at their lowest around the time of Donald Trump’s election in 2016 (around 10.6%) and began to rise after a series of sustained GOP attacks on the law.

Claim: "Says Donald Trump made a lot of money from outsourcing jobs thanks to NAFTA but never, ever raised his voice against it when Congress was considering it."
Evidence Summary: On the campaign trail, then Republican candidate Donald Trump regularly railed against the TPP trade deal. Trump made good on his campaign promise and pulled out of the trade deal as soon as he took office. NAFTA was a brainchild of presidents Reagan, Bush one, and Bush two. The agreement was negotiated in secret with over 500 official U.S. corporate advisors. It's not going to fix the problem facing workers both there, lower wages, and here, outsourcing in a race to the bottom.

Claim: "American Hustleshows the FBI making real-life bribes to Washington politicians. I know, because as your U.S. senator, I turned them down."
Evidence Summary: Jose Irizarry is accused of conspiring with a longtime DEA informant to launder more than $7 million in illicit drug proceeds, sometimes using an underground network known as the black-market peso exchange. Officials described the case as one of the biggest black eyes in the history of the DEA, and one they fear could have compromised undercover operations in the U.S. and South America. The allegations have sent shockwaves through the DEA and drawn new scrutiny to the agency's Colombia field office.

Claim: "These steps (a middle-class tax cut, national health care plan, foreclosure prevention fund, Social Security fix and more) are all paid for."
Evidence Summary: Julian Zelizer: Tax cuts are contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. He says if growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda, he says. Zelizer says the wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries, and will need to pay more if we are going to continue to provide the quality public services, infrastructure, health care and economic equity all Americans truly deserve.

Claim: "The nearly six-year delay in approving Keystone is costing Americans more than 100,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Democrats in Congress and advocacy groups are aghast at the administration’s priorities. The Keystone XL project is being delayed by a federal court that found the Trump Administration didn't fully consider the environmental effects when it approved the permit for the 1,184-mile pipeline. Despite two years of regulatory rollbacks and receiving priority treatment during the shutdown, some in the industry still aren’t satisfied. “We have not seen any major effects of the shutdown on our industry,” Mike Sommers, president of the American Petroleum Institute, said last week.

Claim: "Dubious taxpayer-funded stimulus projects in Rhode Island include $250,000 to provide digital television to the states inmate population."
Evidence Summary: Americans for Tax Fairness says securing Trump's tax returns "is an important public policy objective and a legitimate exercise of Congress's oversight authority" Democrats plan to use a 1924 law to demand that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin turn over tax records to Richard Neal, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. The bill is a direct response to the story of Johnny Bobbitt, Kate McClure and her boyfriend Mark D’Amico, who were all charged with theft by deception.

Claim: "In the history department at the University of Texas, out of 50 registered voters, only one is a Republican."
Evidence Summary: Roberts county, in the heart of America’s Bible belt, has voted Republican with giant margins for decades. No Democrat since Harry Truman in 1948 has even come close to taking this area, which swung red years before the racist politics of the Southern Strategy secured Republican control of the south. Similar skirmishes have taken place at public universities in Nebraska, Iowa, California and Alabama in recent years. But they go back decades — at least since the blowback against teaching evolution and long before 1960s campus radicalism.

Claim: "Metro Atlantans spend over an hour every day or five hours a week commuting, for a total of 260 hours a year."
Evidence Summary: Measures used in the community category include the average travel time to work. The violent crime rate – the total number of rapes, robberies, murders, and aggravated assaults per 100,000 people – was given full weight. The share of commuters either walking, cycling, or taking public transit to work was given half weight. Total number of colleges in the area and the number of restaurants, bars, museums, theatre companies, movie theatres, libraries, and parks per capita were each given a one-quarter weighting.

Claim: "In Cover Florida ""thousands already enrolled and climbing."""
Evidence Summary: Thousands of former felons have applied to register to vote in Florida. They don't need to present proof that they completed their sentence. They can simply fill out the existing application, signing under oath that their voting rights have been restored. The Florida Rights Restoration Coalition said they expected the registration to go smoothly. The group is launching a statewide engagement campaign to ensure that all who are eligible to register are aware of their rights and do so in 2020. It also wants “returning citizens” to tell it about additional challenges.

Claim: "Says Oregons high minimum wage is the reason why by 2011, Oregons restaurants employed an average of only 13.8 workers, or 2.6 fewer employees than they did before the states minimum wage began rising above the federal level in 1997."
Evidence Summary: Three states — California, Massachusetts and New York — have mandated minimum wage increases that will reach $15 an hour. Since the movement started, 22 million low-wage workers have received raises thanks to state and local increases, earning a collective $68 billion more. At that level, the minimum wage is as valuable today in terms of purchasing power as it was in 1968. As a result, wages were up 3.2 percent year over year in 2018 – the highest year-end increase in over a decade. In the Leisure and Hospitality sector (which includes restaurant and hotel workers), wages for all employees (including managers) were up 4.3 percent.

Claim: President Obamas suggested reduction in spending for next year: $0.
Evidence Summary: CNN: ‘Could we get zero growth? I want to nail this down,’ CNN’s Poppy Harlow asked [Kevin] Hassett. ‘If [the shutdown] extended for a whole quarter and given the fact that the first quarter tends to be low because of residual seasonality, then you could end up with a number close to zero,' Hassett responded. “In the Cabinet meeting, Trump also indicated that he might be willing to accept “a little bit less” than $5 billion, though he did not provide an amount,” NBC News reported.

Claim: "Rick Perry ended full-day Pre-K for 100,000 Texas children."
Evidence Summary: “I’m just conservative in my values and views and a lot of the things Mr Trump believes, I agree with,” said Miami Independent School District principal Mark Driskell. Public education is central to the county’s continued prosperity. “If we lose the school, we’d lose the town,’ says Roberts county voted for a local tax increase in 2014 to fund the construction of a modern school building. ‘The country needs to be run as a business not by a politician,' says Celie Locke who backed Trump almost as soon as he announced his candidacy.

Claim: "Any child born prematurely, according to the president, in his own words, can be killed."
Evidence Summary: The event is the largest annual gathering in the United States of opponents of the Supreme Court’s 1973 ruling in Roe v. Wade. “As president, I will always defend the first right in our Declaration of Independence, the right to life,” Trump said in remarks recorded in the Oval Office.Vice President Mike Pence appeared onstage at the rally to introduce the video, calling Trump “the most pro-life president in American history.”During his 2016 campaign, Trump vowed to appoint Supreme Court justices he believed would overturn Roe.

Claim: "If you want to talk firsts for Bush, this was the first time in American history that a president took us into a war and cut taxes."
Evidence Summary: “I think the message has to be we’re a country that is good, that’s always been good,” he continued. “We’ve got to be careful because the American people are very conservative in the sense of not wanting radical change quickly. It just doesn’t work.” In another tweet, Trump boasted about the stock market and warned: “You want to see a Stock Market Crash, Impeach Trump!”

Claim: Forty percent of the undocumented workers in this country entered the U.S. legally and overstayed their visa.
Evidence Summary: In 2017, for the first time, the unauthorized population from Mexico constituted less than one-half of all the undocumented people in the U.S. Mexico was the leading country for visa overstays in 2016, "about twice the number from India, China and Venezuela" Most undocumented immigrants don’t “sneak” across the border. The majority of immigrants in the USA without authorization first entered the country legally, and then overstayed their visas. In November, more than 25,000 families crossed the border, the highest monthly total on record.

Claim: "Milwaukee has seen an uptick in violence since 2010, and the only period of calm we get is when winter sets in."
Evidence Summary: The weekend of Aug. 4, 2018, brought a stunning surge in gun violence to Chicago. 75 people shot, 13 of them fatally. Hot-weather weekends on the West and South sides are known danger zones, but gunfire is a year-round source of fear and anguish. The dawn of each year brings a semblance of statistical order to the chaos. The consequences are inseparable from the causes. Then lobby for coming to terms with the other. —Ted Z. Manuel, Chicago police chief.

Claim: "The region I represent, both currently and in the future, has more automotive plants than the entire state of California."
Evidence Summary: "We will be ‘California for all,’” he promised. “We won’t be divided between rural, urban, north, south, coastal and inline” “Many growing businesses like ours are continuing to invest in the future regardless" “It has to encompass all parts of the country.”“We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies”

Claim: "Obama's wife wrote a paper in college that said America was a nation founded on ""crime and hatred"" and that whites in America are ""ineradicably racist."""
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) said there is "no question" that US President Donald Trump is a racist. She based her claim on "words that he uses, which are historic dog whistles of white supremacy" Former Ohio State Sen. Nina Turner said Trump was one step away from bringing “back the colored and white water fountain [if] we leave it up to him” Former VP Joe Biden: "We have a lot to root out, but most of all the systematic racism that most of us whites don't like to acknowledge even exists"

Claim: "Says in U.S. Congress, members dont even have to be on the floor for debates or votes."
Evidence Summary: Some progressive Democrats have announced that they will vote against the rules package, which was rolled out Tuesday evening. One provision would also amend the rule against wearing hats on the House floor to have religious exceptions, so that incoming Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Muslim, may wear her headscarf. Another notable provision would change the process to "vacate the chair," a process to force out the speaker. Some representatives are basing their opposition on the inclusion of the "pay as you go" rule.

Claim: "Says Gov. Rick Scott lost Florida 331,247 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Ron DeSantis, the new Republican governor of Florida, is trying to wrest control of state water policy from industry interests. The new governor is breaking with the legacy of his predecessor, Rick Scott, a climate change skeptic. An influential thinktank helped quash a World Health Organization recommendation to increase cigarette taxes in Malaysia, where smoking kills more than 27,200 people every year. Police in West Palm Beach say one of their officers ran over two people who were lying on a dark road — presumably watching the eclipse.

Claim: "In the 1950s and 1960s, the minimum wage was such that it would lift you out of poverty."
Evidence Summary: In 1966, the federal minimum wage was $1.25/hour. At 40 hours a week, 50 weeks a year, the annual wage would equal $2,500, which is below the U.S. Census Bureau’s 1966 poverty level for a family of three. With growth, the economy creates more jobs, increasing the competition for employees."While there are many historical and social reasons for people to be economically inactive, it's crucial that we tackle this issue head on," he says.

Claim: "Says Freddie Mac, electric co-ops and credit unions are all government sponsored enterprises."
Evidence Summary: The Treasury department furloughed roughly 72,400 workers. That is nearly three times the number of people who work at Facebook. Owners whose companies are dependent on government contracts, or whose customers are government workers, should make sure they always have a financial buffer. During capitalism’s so-called ‘golden age’, between the end of the second world war and the early 1970s, high corporate tax rates subsidized the social safety net and public housing. Today, major corporations like Microsoft stash profits in offshore tax shelters.

Claim: "When Obama was interviewed by American reporters in Asia, ""Not one of them asked me about Asia. Not one of them asked me about the economy."""
Evidence Summary: China's vice president used his own speech in Davos to take shots at Trump and his administration. "Shifting blame for one's own problems onto others will not resolve the problems," said Wang Qishan. He sought to cast China as a proponent of open markets, though in reality it keeps tight control of its access to foreign investors and companies. "The last thing we should do is to stop making the pie and just engage in a futile debate on how to divide it," he said.

Claim: "Only 15 percent of drug users are African-American, yet 74 percent of all drug offenders sentenced to prison are black"
Evidence Summary: William Barr's first stint as attorney general under President George H.W. Bush led the charge toward tightening the grip on young black men. Barr acknowledged that his policies created today's mass incarceration problem, but he failed to completely renounce them. He also neglected to state that the decades-old war on drugs was a failure. His approach indicates no understanding of the nexus of race and law in America, says Yvonne Smith, Evanston, Illinois. The lifetime likelihood that an individual born in 2001 will end up in prison also varies greatly by race, she says.

Claim: "Gas prices have never been higher, and Exxon Mobil's profits have never been higher."
Evidence Summary: The outlook was much better for consumers at the fuel pump, where gas dipped to less than $2 in some locations. Trump promised to promote fossil fuels, and last year the U.S. became the world's largest oil producer. Natural gas production is also booming, thanks to the same "fracking" revolution. "We heard some people claim these tax cuts are going to pay for themselves," said Marc Goldwein, senior vice president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. "Certainly, they haven't to date," he said.

Claim: "Says As Mayor of Wilsonville, I drove TriMet out of town and replaced their bloated transit system with our own local bus line that offers better service and has saved our businesses millions of dollars."
Evidence Summary: Mayor Ford said he was confident City Hall could afford all the promises. Enyia acknowledged that such changes would be difficult to implement immediately. But she said improving and restructuring how city government operates eventually could make it happen. She pointed to the tens of millions of dollars the city has had to spend on police misconduct settlements and corruption as an area where money is wasted. The extra funding will be in addition to the precept households pay to fund for fire services and the running of the mayor's office, which costs between £51.29 and £153.90.

Claim: "If Rhode Island applied a 1-percent sales tax on all items exempt from sales tax, ''the state would receive an additional $89,376,857.''"
Evidence Summary: The majority of states have enacted laws requiring retailers who sell in their states to collect sales tax. Most of the laws exempt retailers who have $100,000 or less in revenue and 200 or fewer transactions in a given state. Oak Brook’s sales tax revenue is especially important and has been strong enough for the village to not levy a municipal property tax. The increase would put it on par with what St. Charles, Geneva, Bartlett and Batavia charge and far lower than Elgin's 9.5 percent rate.

Claim: "Under the current procedure, if someone on a terror watch list tries to buy a gun, authorities are notified."
Evidence Summary: The bill would require individuals who are not licensed gun dealers to bring the weapon to an authorized vendor to conduct background checks of prospective purchasers. The requirement would also apply to background checks for sales or “transfers” of guns between family and friends. “Now is the time to come together, be responsible. We must never stop fighting," said former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, D-Ariz. "Fight, fight, fight," she said at an event Tuesday.

Claim: "One of the first states in the union to pass a voter ID bill was Rhode Island, 85 percent Democratic legislature."
Evidence Summary: A mistake with software led to 23,000 voters being registered incorrectly in California. “It was an issue with software, and the head of the DMV resigned,” Sam Levine noted on Twitter. Automatic registration added 727,924 people to the rolls since launch in April. In 2012, the Pew Research Center found that more than 3 million people were registered to vote in more than one state. In addition, 1.8 million dead people were on the voter registration rolls.

Claim: "In the past 27 months, President Barack Obama has created more private-sector jobs than in the Reagan recovery."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’ Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms.

Claim: "Likens Obamas predicament to 1982, saying, when Reagan just started out, (unemployment was at) exactly the same point. He was two years into his term. The unemployment was well over 10 percent, and it did come out of it."
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Ronald Reagan believed in the possibilities of a country that was forever reinventing itself. In reality, presidents don’t control the business cycle, and to Trump’s recent frustration, they don't control the Federal Reserve, either. Reagan was a practical man, and he knew, as he put it, that “because we’re a great nation, our challenges seem complex.

Claim: "Says Tom Barrett voted to ban 15 different kinds of guns, even a lot of common deer rifles."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker signed a background check bill into law Thursday. The measure is likely to face opposition from the Republican-controlled Senate and the White House. The National Rifle Association said a federal background check did not prevent Giffords' shooting, adding that "so-called universal background checks will never be universal because criminals do not comply with the law" California's new law also bans anyone convicted of a misdemeanor domestic violence offense from possessing a firearm for the duration of their lives.

Claim: "Says Tommy Thompsons tax plan amounts to an average tax cut of almost $87,000 for the top 1 percent."
Evidence Summary: The top rate for the rich in developed countries plunged from 62 percent in 1970 to 38 percent in 2013. In 2017, President Trump reduced tax rates for individuals and corporations, a decrease that favors the rich and businesses. The corporate tax rate has been similarly slashed around the world over the past decades, with some countries now mulling over further cuts in response to the US move to do so. After three decades with top rates below 40 percent, a big hike from today's 37 percent poses risks politically and perhaps economically.

Claim: "Says Connie Mack takes two homestead exemptions, directly contrary to Floridas Constitution."
Evidence Summary: “We were elected to serve all Floridians and that is a charge we will keep,” DeSantis said in a written address to the state. “These people are really upset about pollution of the rivers and the Everglades” “DeSantis wants to stand in the way of Amendment 4 by asking the legislature to pass an implementing bill, where in fact Amendment 4 is self-executing,’ ACLU of Florida says. � “This case is bad karma for the already tainted property tax industry, long a troubling nexus of politicians, lawyers — and key players such as Burke who wear both hats”

Claim: "Says 220,000New Yorkers would have immediately benefitted had President Obamas executive action been affirmed.So almost a quarter million of our fellow New Yorkers who are hurting right now whose rights and opportunities were taken away by the Supreme Court."
Evidence Summary: Reed O'Connor, a Texas federal judge, put on hold his earlier ruling stating that Congress rendered the ACA unconstitutional by zeroing out the individual mandate in 2017. With the current furlough, Black people are experiencing collateral damage from President Trump’s willingness to close swaths of the government unless he receives funding for a wall along the U.S. southern border. Black-owned firms are also more likely to work with federal contracts, which will not receive back pay.

Claim: "The bill reported out of committee sets up a $50 billion slush fund that, while intended for resolving failing firms, is available for virtually any purpose that the treasury secretary sees fit."
Evidence Summary: The only serious source of funds is in the military construction bill. Republicans are wary, too. Officials explored diverting money from a range of accounts, including $13.9 billion given to the Army Corps of Engineers after last year's deadly hurricanes and floods. Other possibilities included tapping asset forfeiture funds, such as money seized from drug kingpins, according to a congressional Republican not authorized to speak publicly about private conversations. Democrats plan to use a 1924 law to demand that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin turn over Trump's tax records to House Ways and Means Committee.

Claim: "Barack Obama and the Democrats have ""proposed a tax for not having health insurance."""
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. Democrats are bullish on health care as an electoral issue after focusing on President Donald Trump’s agenda during the midterm elections last year. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all” these days.

Claim: "The priorities of more than three-quarters of Americans are to increase the minimum wage, create a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, and require background checks for gun buyers."
Evidence Summary: Sens. Cory Booker and Patrick Leahy say Americans want a government that works for the people, not just some of the people. Booker and Leahy: Americans rank the economy, health care and immigration about equally as the issues that the new Congress should focus on. Democrats made unprecedented gains on Election Day largely on a platform of activist government, they say. The 2018 midterm election should be a clear lesson for the still-forming roster of 2020 presidential contenders, the authors say. They say Americans' support for these proposals and candidates seems at odds with their low levels of trust in government.

Claim: "Six of the 10 richest counties in the United States surround Washington, D.C."
Evidence Summary: The positive stock outlook follows a 660-point drop in the Dow on Thursday over fears of a slowing global economy. Mr. Carter has been a vocal opponent of the incentive package, worth more than half a billion dollars, used to lure one of Amazon's new headquarters to Crystal City, Va. He fought against a bill overhauling the state’s energy grid, arguing that it gave away too much to Dominion, a powerful for-profit utility. While Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product, it ranks 26th in income equality, according to the American Community Survey.

Claim: "The FBI has reopened its investigation into Hillary Clinton ... and discovered another 650,000 emails."
Evidence Summary: Buzzfeed News reported that Donald Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen has told special counsel Robert Mueller that the president personally instructed Cohen to lie to congressional investigators. According to the report, which NBC News has not confirmed and Trump's lawyer has said is not true, Cohen was ordered to give false information: That the project did not last as long as it actually did. The special counsel's office released a statement on Friday evening disputing at least parts of Buzzfeed's story, a rare move for a team that does not usually speak to the media.

Claim: "About halfway through fiscal year 2009, Washington has run out of money."
Evidence Summary: The shutdown is already beginning to test the operations of the city of Washington. The city has historically never had full autonomy from Congress. It depends on the federal government for basic functions like its local court system. Large sections of Washington’s public spaces — from the National Mall to the 1,700-acre Rock Creek Park — are on federal land.“I think she feels hunger but she doesn’t tell us. As a father, this is very painful.”

Claim: "At the same time gas prices have increased, the share of the oil market controlled by speculators has more than doubled over the past 10 years."
Evidence Summary: The main U.S. and international crude benchmarks both punched through psychologically important barriers of $50 and $60 a barrel, respectively, on Wednesday. West Texas Intermediate futures had tacked on $10 a barrel since Dec 24. Jefferies Financial Group wrote in a note to clients and employees that the start of the year was a period of “extreme disarray” and that “the future doesn’t feel as certain and optimistic, and the path forward does not seem as clear”

Claim: "Most federal employees do not have collective bargaining for benefits, nor for pay."
Evidence Summary: A shocking number of federal employees believe that basic constitutional protections do not apply to themselves. While prohibited from striking, federal employees have statutory collective bargaining rights. Without a pushback from organized labor, more and more of the civil service continues to face ever deeper cuts, authors say. The question we should be asking is not whether federal workers will, can or should strike, but whether they should be allowed to bargain with the government at all. It is illegal for federal workers to strike, according to the same statute, it is illegal to assert the right to strike.

Claim: "When Obama went to Pakistan in 1981, he could not have been traveling as a U.S. citizen."
Evidence Summary: "My passport ruined my life," said Naila Amin, a dual citizen from Pakistan who grew up in New York City. She was forcibly married at 13 in Pakistan and applied for papers for her 26-year-old husband to come to the country. "I was a passport to him. They all wanted him here, and that was the way to do it," she said. “'We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected, undocumented, unchecked...” Barrack Obama, 2005," Trump wrote on Sunday, quoting the former president in 2005.

Claim: "No one in Rhode Island -- not just children, no one in Rhode Island -- should eat more than one serving of freshwater fish caught in our state each month."
Evidence Summary: Phillips is focused on what he cares most about: water. He bought his father's restaurant, the Fish Dock, and uses the menus to educate customers about local water testing results. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "We need to give up on throwing rocks. It’s not conducive to fixing problems.” The federal government tightly regulates the cod and other fisheries in the Bering Sea.

Claim: "The prosecution of state Sen. Don Balfour cost less than $100, excluding prosecutors salaries."
Evidence Summary: In Wayne County, Michigan, prosecutors were hit with $2.5 million in unexpected personnel costs - nearly an 8 percent increase in their annual budget. Virginia Beach Commonwealth's Attorney Colin Stolle said video evidence has increased costs for his office by more than $1 million a year. "A lot of police departments, from a transparency standpoint and from a liability standpoint, went out and purchased body cameras. I certainly understand that," he said. "I think you do need to get money out of politics," Gillibrand said.

Claim: "You have to be a citizen to vote, but with same-day voter registration, you have places where people just walk in and vote."
Evidence Summary: The For the People Act would require states to allow people to register on the same day they vote and to allow voters to cast ballots for at least 15 consecutive days before Election Day. It would require poll sites to be open at least four hours each of those days and, to the greatest extent possible, that they be located near public transportation. The pilot program in the Democrats’ bill would be implemented in three randomly selected states to test how it works for congressional elections and whether it should be expanded to the whole country.

Claim: "Texas AM University - Commerce offers counseling, safe spaces for students who are afraid of President-elect Trump."
Evidence Summary: "Nick Sandmann and the students of Covington have become symbols of Fake News and how evil it can be," Trump tweeted Tuesday morning. "They have captivated the attention of the world, and I know they will use it for the goo – maybe even to bring people together. It started off unpleasant, but can end in a dream!” Trump tweeted. The controversy began after videos surfaced online showing a confrontation between the high school students and some Native-American adults.

Claim: "Wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have cost every U.S. family $45,000."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has spent more than $130 billion in aid to Afghanistan, including $80 billion to train and equip its security forces. Afghan government forces control barely half the country, with the Taliban insurgents currently controlling or contesting more territory than at any time since 2001. A recent survey found that 57 percent of Americans, including 69 percent of military veterans, said they would support a decision by the president to remove all troops from Afghanistan. It would be easy to dismiss President Trump’s decision to begin withdrawing from Afghanistan as simply a political decision in which Trump is making good on a campaign promise.

Claim: "Jerry Brown gave California state employees collective bargaining powers and now, state employees can retire at 55 with much of their salary for life."
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom, the Democratic lieutenant governor, is moving into the governor’s office in the Capitol next week. Mr. Brown is riding a wave of attention that will disappear as surely as his state trooper escort. He is using his remaining days to offer warnings about the future of California and the planet and lessons learned from a half-century in public life. He arrived eight years ago to a $26 billion deficit, and is leaving a $14 billion surplus — and opposition to Mr. Trump.

Claim: Obama has jumped the shark and ordered the ocean closed!
Evidence Summary: The partial government shutdown is the longest in the history of the United States. Despite this, the Trump administration has still found a way to plow ahead with its "energy dominance" agenda. The failure to hold upcoming Gulf lease sales would “have a negative impact to the Treasury and negatively impact investment in the U.S. Offshore Gulf of Mexico,” BOEM wrote in its updated plan. The news about the oceans makes you wonder how high 2018 will rank among the hottest years in recorded history.

Claim: "In 2007, Ed Gillespie was paid $300,000 to be the frontman for a coalition that made the individual mandate the centerpiece of its health reform plan."
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom is pushing for policies to expand health care access in his state. Newsom sent a letter to the Trump administration and congressional leaders calling for legislation that would give states like his the authority to craft their own single-payer systems. One of Newsom's recent hires, which seemingly signaled he's serious about his push to bring universal health care to California, is Ann O'Leary, who worked in former President Bill Clinton's administration on the Children’s Health Insurance Program.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton presided over $6 billion lost at the State Department, sold uranium to the Russians through (her) faux charity, illegally deleted public records, and murdered an ambassador."
Evidence Summary: The New York Times reported Friday that the FBI launched an investigation into the president and whether he was acting as a Russian agent. Other outlets confirmed the report. The moment the story was published, the liberal media jumped for joy – and the drumbeat started – repeating the falsehoods beginning with a common mantra used by many in the media: “If it’s true . .” The president went on to note that those who read the article will see that “they found absolutely nothing” but the headline gave a different impression.

Claim: "Studies show that if we opened one reserve in Alaska now, in five years, gas prices could be at $2 a gallon."
Evidence Summary: Report calls on federal and state lawmakers to cut off the $20 billion in subsidies fossil fuels receive each year. The White House last year laid out an ambitious plan to expand oil and gas production in federally controlled waters and lands. The Trump administration has even continued to approve new oil drilling permits during the chaotic four-week partial government shutdown. The discussion about the benefits of lower gas prices also leaves unmentioned a collateral impact: Cheaper gas increases consumption and automobile emissions, adding to Earth-warming greenhouse gases.

Claim: "When he was asked a few years ago whether he could see himself lifting the cap on the payroll tax, (McCain) said, 'I could.' But today he's attacking me for holding the very same position."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney said he doesn't "understand" Pelosi's position on the border wall. Steve Scalise called Ocasio-Cortez's tax plan "radical" Paul Krugman said it's backed by "only ignorant people like … um, Peter Diamond, Nobel laureate in economics" The New York Times' Paul Krugman slammed the tax plan as "unreasonable" and "ignorant" "I wouldn't be surprised if in a year, he's thinking about running against Trump," said Joy Behar.

Claim: "Says that while his plan would narrow the time for early voting, it still will be one of the most aggressive early voting time frames in America."
Evidence Summary: Conventional wisdom is that early voting benefits Democrats, so Republicans in several states have moved to limit its availability. But a 2017 paper published by four University of Wisconsin-Madison authors suggests that reality may be more complicated. “The type of voter who takes advantage of early voting is already likely to vote, and more likely toVote Republican,” the authors wrote in a blog post last year. New York lawmakers say they plan to pass a number of voting reforms on Monday, a move that would bring long-sought change to the state.

Claim: "Says his father-in-law, former Gov. Linwood Holton, integrated Virginia public schools."
Evidence Summary: Supporters say Thompson made a mark by improving computer access, launching Spanish-language and STEM programs, and expanding preschool offerings. Public education is central to the county’s continued prosperity. “If we lose the school, we’d lose the town,” says Roberts County, Kentucky, resident. "Their responsibility is to stand up for what's true and what's right," says Republican state senator Chris McDaniel. "I’m just conservative in my values and views and a lot of the things Mr Trump believes, I agree with," says Miami school principal Mark Driskell.

Claim: "Instead of fighting ISIS, (the Saudis) have focused more on a campaign to oust Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen."
Evidence Summary: Pompeo said he believed he had been successful in explaining Trump’s position despite a lack of detail on exactly how and when the withdrawal will take place. He also tried to impress upon leaders the importance of a political solution to the conflict in Yemen, and the need to step up efforts to counter Iran's increasing assertiveness in the region. The U.S. has supported a Saudi-led coalition in Yemen for three years, beginning with Obama. Half of Yemen's population faces starvation as a result of the war.

Claim: "Says the California flag was supposed to be apear, not a bear."
Evidence Summary: “We will be ‘California for all,’” he promised. “We won’t be divided between rural, urban, north, south, coastal and inline.” “The people of CA ― folks in Paradise ― should not be victims to partisan bickering,” Newsom said. � “People’s lives, freedom, security, the water we drink, the air we breathe — they all hang in the balance. The world is waiting on us”

Claim: "The number of new businesses started per year has dropped by 100,000 during this presidents term."
Evidence Summary: The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers’ claims jumped. The number who expect economic growth to decline leaped from just 5 percent last year to 29 percent this year. A record 80 percent of small business owners say their company's financial situation is good. The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to rumblings of an economic slowdown.

Claim: "As governor of Massachusetts, Romney reduced unemployment to just 4.7 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday.

Claim: "In some of the states in the U.S., homosexuality remains a felony."
Evidence Summary: Legally, Immanual Christian School can discriminate against the LGBTQ community. Virginia, in addition to 38 other states, does not prohibit private workplace discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Still, so-called religious freedom advocates have moved quickly to leverage the backlash, portraying criticism as yet another instance of liberal overreach. While LGBTQ individuals still suffer from hate crimes and prejudice, the majority of Americans have no problem with gay marriage or other civil and legal rights. Realizing this, one pocket of America is attempting to hide its own historical privilege in the language of the oppressed.

Claim: "Theres at least 7,500 addicted gamblers in Rhode Island, at least, it could be as high as 22,000."
Evidence Summary: The running 12-month total declined slightly each month through May 2018, before ticking up slightly to 70,652 in June 2018. Preliminary data from the second half of the year are not yet available. “We’ve got a pretty good inkling that it’s at least not increasing as rapidly,” says Lauren Rossen, a statistician at the CDC's National Center for Health Statistics. "Hardly anyone talks about this problem in Puerto Rico. It's like it doesn't exist," said Torruella, who also trains emergency officials.

Claim: "Says female genital mutilation is a central African problem, not an Islamic problem, as Bill Maher suggested."
Evidence Summary: The Egyptian government’s best efforts may also fail to reach more conservative doctors in rural areas. “The fact is that in every country, the government can’t cover the entire spectrum,” says Dr Natalia Kanem, head of the UN Population Fund. A mushrooming and overwhelmingly young population disadvantages young women according to Kanem. 62% of the Egyptian population is aged 29 or younger. "Violence against women is not a women issue, it is a men issue," says Aiia Maasarwe.

Claim: "Because of the new health care law, Americans no longer will see their coverage dropped or capped when illness strikes."
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.“We urge the administration and Congress to reverse this alarming trend and work together to enact bipartisan measures to protect access to quality health care for all Americans,” Pelosi said.

Claim: Says tax revenue was lower than expected in May and thats basically a clear indication the governors counselors are probably right -- that we are still not out of the woods yet.
Evidence Summary: Tax Day isn't until April, but some of Mindy Schwartz' accounting clients are anxious to contact the IRS now. They've gotten notices citing issues with past returns and saying the clients owe money. The USDA said in a statement Thursday that officials "understand that the current lapse in appropriations creates uncertainty for the future" The new governor has declined to release personal income tax returns that could shed light on his financial holdings, providing only the first two pages of the returns. The move follows Pritzker’s announcement last week that he would use money from his own pocket to double the salaries of his his top government aides.

Claim: "Congressional Republicans have introduced dozens of bills on social issues and other topics, but zero on job creation."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. Republicans need to break their own self-made mold of being naysayers instead of doers, says Andy Puzder. We hope Republicans and Democrats, from the president to newly seated members of Congress, recognize what’s at stake: the future prosperity of millions of working Americans, he says.

Claim: 1.53 million jobs are at risk (from potential defense cuts).
Evidence Summary: The government shutdown could have long-term effects on cybersecurity. IT and cybersecurity professionals furloughed across the government, critical functions are being ignored. Many of the Department of Homeland Security employees responsible for civilian cybersecurity efforts are on furlough. The shutdown could affect more than just the government’s own online security posture. It could, and perhaps already has, weaken private enterprise security as well, argues report author Fahmida Rashid. It's quite literally dismissing the people who are building your fort while you are in the middle of fighting a war," says Ray DeMeo.

Claim: "The Clinton Foundation took steps that went above and beyond all legal requirements and, indeed, all standard requirements followed by every other charitable organization."
Evidence Summary: "Police and prosecutors have been getting increasingly savvy and creative and aggressive about going after older sex crimes and cover-ups than ever before," he said. "At the eleventh hour, she has prevented thousands of children from being plunged into poverty by an unjustifiable retrospective policy," he added. "It is our hope that her community hold her accountable and encourage to accept that our country is made up of all different faiths and ethnicities. It is what makes America unique and special," the attorney general said.

Claim: Says Hillary Clinton once wanted a wall on the Mexican border.
Evidence Summary: President Trump made a surprise appearance at the White House briefing room to congratulate House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on her re-election. Pelosi called a border wall a symptom of an "old way of thinking" and promised not to fund it. In his post, Trump also provided a partial quote from former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, emphasizing her support for the Secure Fence Act of 2006. That legislation passed by an overwhelming 80-19 majority, and was backed by Obama, as well. Trump continued: "The only reason they do not want to build a Wall is that Walls Work!"

Claim: "Obama ""closed offshore tax safe havens."""
Evidence Summary: £68bn has flowed from Russia into Britain’s offshore satellites such as the British Virgin Islands, Cayman, Gibraltar, Gibraltar and Guernsey. By far the most attractive way to deposit corrupt capital, he said, is “to hide money in apparent open view” Many developing countries in Africa and Asia have very low levels of tax collection and some of the weakest economies in the world. If investment simply flowed to the countries with the lowest tax rates then all of the world’S cars, computers and clothes would be manufactured in tax havens.

Claim: "On foreign policy, Joe Biden was against aid for Vietnam, said the fall of the Shah was a step forward for human rights in Iran, opposed Reagans defense build-up and voted against the first Gulf War."
Evidence Summary: Many have questioned if Biden’s bipartisan approach will make it difficult for him to gain support with the liberal wing of the party. It could set up for a make-or-break strategy for Biden -- gambling that voters will respond to a seasoned politician who touts his success at reaching across party lines. Even if Democrats can overlook “Joe being Joe” comments, they will be less forgiving with his voting record. Being in the Senate for 36 years means Biden has taken a stance on every issue under the sun.

Claim: "The presidents come out with rules that say, No new coal-fired power plants."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Global Energy Institute compiled a list of 20 regulatory reforms that could be impacted or delayed by the shutdown. The heart of the proposal is a call for 100 percent carbon-free electricity before 2030. Northern Indiana Public Service Co. planned to retire two of its five remaining coal-fired power plants by 2023. Now, it plans to do away with all of them over the next decade, and buy more solar and wind power instead. The decision is part of a broader shift among American utilities toward less costly energy sources.

Claim: "If the U.S. didnt borrow $1.2 trillion every year to fund government operations, that money would be available for entrepreneurs and business people to put to work creating jobs and building and expanding their businesses."
Evidence Summary: "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he says. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he adds. "Many growing businesses like ours are continuing to invest in the future regardless" "The government really needs to get together and work this out," he writes. "There are many historical and social reasons for people to be economically inactive, it's crucial that we tackle this issue head on" "We can't work less and earn more," he insists.

Claim: "Long-term federal investment in U.S. airports is urgent because there was a recent survey of the top airports in the world, and there was not a single U.S. airport that came in the top 25."
Evidence Summary: The partial government shutdown — the longest ever — has thinned the ranks of federal workers who staff airport security lines. The scene at most of the nation's airports has so far been marked more by concerned passengers showing up early than by missed flights. The long waits at all three checkpoints in the domestic terminal of the world's busiest airport were reported on its website. "We are down a few security lines, but things are moving pretty efficiently," said Elise Durham, the airport's communications director.

Claim: "Since I was elected, crime rates have been at their lowest in over a decade."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post tweeted in reference to the 266,000 arrests, “The number is right but misleading” Multiple studies from social scientists and the libertarian think tank Cato Institute have found that people in the U.S. illegally are less likely to commit crime. A March study by the journal Criminology found "undocumented immigration does not increase violence" "There was no one to beat up. You didn't have President Obama to put up in PowerPoint and say 'He's the best gun salesman, look what he's doing to our country,'" he said.

Claim: "In 2006, Arizona had four ballot issues that were ""very tough on illegal immigration... Forty-seven percent of the Hispanics in Arizona voted for them."""
Evidence Summary: Because of a slight calendar adjustment, Latinos will have a larger say in who Democrats elect to run for president in 2020. California moved up its presidential primary — held in 2016 on June 7 — to March 3 for next year's election. That means California, the state with the largest number of eligible Latino voters, estimated by Pew Research Center at about 7.7 million in 2018. Iowa’s caucuses on Feb. 3, as well as New Hampshire's primary on February. 11, 2020, still will precede the Texas and California primaries.

Claim: "For every [coyote] they kill, the population will replace and usually multiply."
Evidence Summary: “The notion that human beings might exterminate a whole species … you just hadn’t thought about it,” he said. “Growth is going to come to an end, either suddenly or in a controlled way.” “The whole of the natural world is at our disposal, as it were. We can do things accidentally that exterminate ... species that live within it," he added. "We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control"

Claim: "Number of Americans killed by terrorism in the last decade: 24. Number of Americans killed by guns in the last decade: 280,024."
Evidence Summary: Based on the 17 incidents that the ADL included in their report, which resulted in 50 deaths, the group concludes that right-wing extremists killed more people in 2018 than any year since 1995 when the Oklahoma City bombings took place. The organization found 42 of the 50 deaths were the result of guns, according to the report. "We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control and ultimately fuel serious violence," says Cohen. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he says.

Claim: "Georgia has the most restrictive ballot access laws in the country.	elections	mary-n			independent	0	0	0	0	0	a television interview
Evidence Summary: Georgia's outdated election system has drawn criticism from cybersecurity experts and voting integrity advocates. A commission tasked with examining potential replacements is preparing to make recommendations to lawmakers. The paperless system was closely scrutinized during last year's nationally watched gubernatorial race between Democrat Stacey Abrams and Republican Brian Kemp. U.S. District Judge Amy Totenberg wrote in September that Georgia election officials had stalled too long in the face of "a mounting tide of evidence of the inadequacy and security risks" of the system.

Claim: 6136	2096.json	half-true	Democrats in the 1930s wanted President Franklin Roosevelt to be more conservative.	history,pundits,abc-news-week	george-will	Columnist	Maryland	columnist	7	6	3	5	1	a roundtable discussion on ABC's This Week
Evidence Summary: Tamar Gabbard is a Democratic member of Congress; she’s now running for president. Since that time, the number of Democrats labeling themselves as conservative declined to only 13 percent. Two shutdown-related rallies will be held in Washington Thursday. Former Maryland Rep. John Delaney, a 2020 hopeful, is in Detroit for a roundtable discussion with small business leaders.. Sen. Bernie Sanders and Reps. Elijah Cummings, Ro Khanna, Peter Welch, Joe Neguse and others hold a 11:30 a.m. press conference on Capitol Hill.

Claim: "Says Sidney Blumenthal wrote that the Benghazi attack was almost certainly preventable. Clinton was in charge of the State Department, and it failed to protect U.S. personnel and an American consulate in Libya."
Evidence Summary: Judge Royce Lamberth ruled Tuesday that Susan Rice and Ben Rhodes must answer written questions about the State Department's response to the deadly 2012 terror attack in Benghazi, Libya. The lawsuit by Judicial Watch – now with the U.S. Court of Appeals District of Columbia Circuit – was first filed in 2014 in an effort to obtain records related to Clinton and her staff's response. The group sought documents about Rice's explanation immediately after the attack that characterized it as a protest turned violent instead of a deliberate terrorist assault. The deposition is part of Judicial Watch's inquiry into whether the State Dept. acted in bad faith by not telling a court for months that they had asked in mid-2014 for missing emails to be returned.

Claim: "Gun marketplaces on Facebook mean ANYONE can broker a deal on a gun online, meet the seller in a parking lot somewhere, and walk away with a weapon."
Evidence Summary: Facebook has caused "massive social disruption," McNamee wrote. He called for regulators to limit the markets where the tech giants can operate. Some exchanges on Facebook were political and referenced that Gov. J.B. Pritzker recently signed a law that will require state licensing of gun dealers. A man posted an image of a handgun in a red circle with a diagonal line through it and ridiculed the notion of “gun-free zones.’ “How could this happen? Don’t they have that little sticker on the door?"

Claim: "Over the last four years, 53 percent of black wealth has just disappeared."
Evidence Summary: 37% of Black families and 33% of Latino families have zero or negative wealth, compared to just 15.5% of white families. Low levels of Black and Latino wealth, combined with their growing proportion of the population, are a significant contributor to the overall decline in American median household wealth. While wealth at the middle falters, it’s skyrocketing at the top. In other words, the 1% are profiting off ongoing racial economic inequality. All this is happening against a backdrop of seemingly good economic news.

Claim: "Since Florida passed the stand your ground law in 2005, deaths due to self-defense have jumped over 250 percent."
Evidence Summary: The Florida Supreme Court ruled that the state’s controversial “stand your ground” statute applies to police officers, just as it does to civilians. The ruling radically expanded the boundaries of justifiable homicide to grant police immunity from arrest, criminal prosecution, and a jury trial. This modification represents the latest in a steadily creeping distortion of justice that intensifies the “shoot first, ask questions later’ logic of weaponized self-defense, writes Julian Zelizer. The case in question concerns the July 2013 shooting death of 33-year-old Jermaine McBean by Broward County Sheriff”s Deputy Peter Peraza.

Claim: "The polling shows over and over again that, unlike Donald Trump, that with me as the nominee, we beat Hillary Clinton."
Evidence Summary: "If that's the case, whether I end up running or not, that's a victory, because it means we will govern better, we will be a better party and we'll win more elections," he said. He said he'll tout his strong performance in last fall's Senate race in Ohio to urge fellow Democrats to embrace the approach in their campaigns. "I don't think it's an either/or, I think you do both. That's how you win in the heartland.”

Claim: "Says Americans invented Pong, Space Invaders and the iPhone."
Evidence Summary: The differences between the Ohlone and the Spanish ways of life reveal the contradictions inherent to our present-day idea of ‘technology’ It was unfathomable to missionaries like Lasuén that the Spanish might prefer a world without the rigid hierarchies and controlling attitude towards nature that the Europeans possessed. And that is the kind of attention that I've not been used to growing up in Asia. And I felt that the American classrooms are smaller, encouraged individual thinking, critical thinking. And, 'the best thing that ever happened' to most of the engineers we met at Lee's firm – they too are alumni of America – with a dream for China.

Claim: "Since the salary for state lawmakers was raised to $79,500, that purchasing power has now been reduced to $53,000."
Evidence Summary: The New York Legislature created a committee composed of current and former state and New York City comptrollers to determine whether members of the Assembly and State Senate deserved a raise. In December, the committee recommended a $50,500 raise, to $130,000 by 2021, along with a provision that lawmakers’ outside income could not exceed 15 percent of their pay. Within days of the committee’s decision, the Government Justice Center, an Albany-based nonprofit, sued to overturn it, saying that only the Legislature could set pay.

Claim: "Obama's plan for health care reform ends exorbitant out-of-pocket expenses, deductibles or co-pays."
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Says Texas General Land Office has earned the school children of Texas $451,932.89 on wind leases that haven't produced a watt of energy."""
Evidence Summary: The Department of the Interior manages one-fifth of all the land in the U.S. Under the Trump administration, oil and gas leases on public lands generated $360 million last year. The Golden Plains windfarm will replace about one third of the generation of the Hazelwood power station. The Andrews government has increased Victoria’s renewable energy target to 50% by 2030. The Yarra, Port Phillip and Moreland councils, as well as Australia Post, Bank Australia, the National Australia Bank, Federation Square and Zoos Victoria began their new energy contracts on the same day.

Claim: Each [Corbett administration] budget finished in the black.
Evidence Summary: Nine of 15 Cabinet-level departments in the U.S. are not funded. "People are missing paychecks, or working without pay," says Hillary Clinton. "Our national parks are overrun with trash," she says. "We are in a state of crisis," says President Barack Obama. "It's time to change the way we do things," says Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona. "The time for compromise is over," says Rep. Ed Royce, D-Illinois. "There is no way out"

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton promised, running for the Senate years ago, 200,000 jobs for upstate New York. ... Not only didnt they come, but they lost so many jobs."
Evidence Summary: Warren’s itinerary took her through western Iowa, starting in Council Bluffs and Sioux City, two midsize cities on the Missouri River that border Nebraska. All three locales are in counties Trump won handily in the 2016 election. Asked about jobs, Gillibrand talked up a New York job-training program that increases workers' access to good-paying jobs. But that's not the issue facing people here, said Lauris Olson, chair of the Story County Board of Supervisors. "Where she is, they may be having to retrain people ... we're the opposite," she said.

Claim: "Barack Obama's health care plan is ""to mandate health care coverage and have a universal government-run program."""
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all” these days. Democrats have at least eight substantive proposals for achieving universal coverage, and they have a lot more similarities than differences. Now is the perfect time to expose them to the public, debate the merits, and engage experts to improve on them.

Claim: Hollywood is #1 in Broward homicides in 2013. Thanks Chief Fernandez!
Evidence Summary: In Chicago, there were 561 homicides between Jan. 1 and Dec. 31, 2018. That’s a decline of about 100 murders compared to 2017. Meanwhile, as of about mid-December, New York reported 278 murders and Los Angeles had 243. “Are we where we want to be? Of course not,” Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson recently told the Chicago Tribune, but he added: “I do think we are taking steps in the right direction.”

Claim: "Among Syrian refugees and migrants coming into Europe, there look like very few women. Very few children."
Evidence Summary: Death rate for people attempting the crossing has risen dramatically from one in 42 to one in 18 in just a year. The price Europe has paid to prevent crossings is more people being exploited, raped and tortured just across its borders. In 2015 1,015,078 refugees arrived in Europe, more than 800,000 trafficked by sea from Turkey to Greece. Since then the numbers reaching Europe have plummeted. The number of clandestine arrivals at UK southern coastal ports in 2017-18 was 1,832, a 23% decrease on the 2,366 of these arrivals the previous year.

Claim: "Since 2004, there have been some 1,300 attacks (on rail targets). Four thousand people have died. Thousands of injuries."
Evidence Summary: 15 arrests made and 120 incidents recorded since 7pm on Monday. Weapons offences since 2015 increased by 126% from 42 to 95, while sex attacks rose from 925 to 1,047. 25% increase in all criminal offences recorded on the tube network during the same period – 10,450 in 2015-16 compared with 13,101 in 2017-18. RMT, he transport workers’ union, has blamed government cuts to TfL’s budget for the increase. There were more than 8,500 terrorist attacks worldwide in 2017, according to a State Department report.

Claim: "Senator Chris Dodd, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, placed an amendment in the stimulus bill that allowed for banks bailed out with taxpayer money including AIG to hand out huge bonuses."
Evidence Summary: California Rep. Maxine Waters will become the first woman and first African-American chair of the House Financial Services Committee. Waters has already hinted she is interested in ramping up the pressure on banks that have been accused of widespread abuses. Financial firms had quietly rallied opposition to Ms. Liang’s nomination, arguing that she was not supportive of efforts to recalibrate postcrisis rules. The banking industry has argued that the government overreacted to the crisis and imposed overly restrictive rules.

Claim: "Decorated Marine, two-tour Iraq war vet."
Evidence Summary: The war has transcended the battlefield, affecting not only the volunteers but also their families. Susan Shirley, 61, of suburban Denver knew little about the Kurds, Islamic State or the Middle East when her son Levi announced he was going to Syria. “I wouldn't fight, but I would go back as a medic. I will see how it develops,” he said. "It's not acceptable as a veteran, as a federal employee, as an air traffic controller to use my profession and my livelihood as a political football," he added.

Claim: "If you make more than $250,000 a year you only really take home about $125,000."
Evidence Summary: "It is between the many, who do the work, create the wealth and pay taxes, and the few, who set the rules, reap the rewards and so often dodge taxes," he said. "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he added. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many,. not the few." "Can you be middle class or even wealthy and still live paycheck to paycheck?" he asked.

Claim: "Since parole abolition, Virginias crime rate has fallen to third lowest in the country, our recidivism rate is down 20 percent and thats the second lowest in the country."
Evidence Summary: When Barr was attorney general in the 1990s, dogmatic, tough-on-crime policies held virtually the same position that progressive policies do now. Activists see parallels in the strategies of opponents of more lenient sentencing laws in California and the rhetoric on crime at the national level. The former attorney general, Jeff Sessions, warned early last year about a “staggering increase in homicides.” Violent crime had ticked up in 2015 and 2016 after a long decline, but when F.B.I. statistics for 2017 were released, they showed that violent crime had gone down again.

Claim: "When you were casting your vote for Republicans, Brian Kemp was voting for Democrats.	message-machine,voting-record	doug-macginnitie	Sandy Springs City Councilman	Georgia	republican	1	1	0	0	0	a campaign commercial
Evidence Summary: Georgia's outdated election system has drawn criticism from cybersecurity experts and voting integrity advocates. A commission tasked with examining potential replacements is preparing to make recommendations to lawmakers. The paperless system was closely scrutinized during last year's nationally watched gubernatorial race between Democrat Stacey Abrams and Republican Brian Kemp. Cybersecurity experts have warned that the touchscreen voting machines Georgia has used since 2002 are unreliable and vulnerable to hacking. The state's voting system has been challenged in lawsuits, including one filed after the November election by Fair Fight Action.

Claim: 6194	789.json	half-true	I want to give every American a $5,000 refundable tax credit."""
Evidence Summary: O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" He said it "rewards US companies that have trillions stashed offshore, encourages US companies to dodge foreign taxes on their foreign profits" O'Brien: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few." "The budget deficit could be $985 billion. I want to give Congress $535 million in bonuses to balance the budget," Trump tweeted.

Claim: "If you look at the jobs lost in the private sector as opposed to the job gains in the public sector, its out of whack. The governments growing and the private economys shrinking."
Evidence Summary: "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I’m doing," he says. "We can’n't work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he adds. "I think we have to examine it more closely," the president says of the shutdown's impact on the economy. "The government really needs to get together and work this out," Obama says.

Claim: "There are actual cities like Birmingham, England, that are totally Muslim where non-Muslims just simply dont go in."
Evidence Summary: Goddard said he wanted to “ban Islam from the west’, calling the faith “a threat to every man, woman and child in this country’. He said he would “get rid of” the estimated 2,000 mosques around the UK. In another post, Blaiklock writes about her discomfort when encountering a woman wearing a full-face veil and expresses worry about the extent of Muslim immigration. She describes two cities near Detroit “that have become almost total Muslim enclaves”

Claim: "Says 40 years ago, the U.S. placed Texas under Voting Rights Act for failing to print ballots in Spanish."
Evidence Summary: The large Hispanic electorate voting early could also force a change in how candidates reach out to Latinos. Simply running Spanish language ads or starting outreach late in the cycle won’t be enough. California has been very intentional about improving voter turnout, adopting methods such as registering 16- and 17-year-olds and modernizing how its elections are conducted. By moving the primary up, candidates “have to come here and earn votes,” he said. “With Trump having taken over the RNC for the 2020 elections and with this consent decree no longer standing in his way, we should be concerned about a new wave of voter suppression coming from the Republican Party during the upcoming election.”

Claim: "[When I was mayor] Providence was one of the five renaissance cities of America, according to USA Today in those days. Money magazine said it was the fifth best city to live in in America. In addition to that, All Cities Almanac said in 1994, I believe, that it was the safest city in America."
Evidence Summary: In Franklin Park, the median household income of $121,661 a year is one of the highest in the country. Nationwide, there were 383 violent crimes for every 100,000 people in 2017. Newport, Rhode Island is by far the best educated city in the state. More than half – 50.9 percent – of adult residents completed at least their bachelor's degree in the city. The median home value in Newport is $382,200, and the median income is $59,794.

Claim: "If you took every penny of the 1 percent, including their dog, you wouldnt even begin to balance the budget."
Evidence Summary: "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he says. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" The budget deficit could be $985 billion, he says, and he wants to give Congress $535 million in bonuses to balance the budget. “We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending,” he adds. ‘The government really needs to get together and work this out.’

Claim: "Under the new health care law, all real estate transactions will be subject to a 3.8% Sales Tax"
Evidence Summary: Taxpayers will be confronting — many for the first time — a welter of changes made by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. People without health insurance may be surprised to learn they are still on the hook when it comes to Obamacare’s so-called individual mandate. Without action from Congress, 21 million seniors and individuals with disabilities will take a hit. The 2020 Health Insurance Tax (HIT) would raise premiums or reduce benefits for seniors and low-income beneficiaries on Medicare Advantage.

Claim: Says Sherwin-Williams is making lead paint and poisoning people around the world.
Evidence Summary: Paint and coatings maker Sherwin-Williams said it was "disappointed" with its sales in October and November. Two moms whose sons died after being exposed to a toxic chemical sued the Environmental Protection Agency this week. The government shutdown has suspended federal cleanups at Superfund sites around the nation. "I'm seething [...] I want to throttle somebody," a Birmingham, Alabama, resident says of the shutdown. "We are already hurting, and it's just adding more fuel to the fire," another resident says.

Claim: "When the governor announced his jobs budget, 99 folks from the Department of Taxation were let go the next day."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom laid out his plans for the state in a two-hour presentation. He offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. "I feel extremely let down by the people in charge that this is suddenly my burden to bear," Newsom said.

Claim: "Some criminals have learned how to spy on Americans, hacking into our home computers and looking out through the video camera attached to the screen."
Evidence Summary: Hackers breached systems at some two dozen utilities, but the government admits it doesn’t know how many companies were penetrated. The danger has been apparent for some time, but our leaders have not impressed on the public the urgency of the challenge. The prankish, anarchistic mentality that seems to lie behind the German hacks may be closer to vandalism than to violent assault, but it must still be shocking and distressing to the victims. But not all crime is major, and not all minor crime is harmless to its victims.

Claim: "Since the stimulus package was passed, Ohios lost over 100,000 more jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "When Jim Doyle was governor and Mary Burke was commerce secretary, Wisconsin saw billions in middle-class tax hikes on nursing home beds, gas, phones and garbage."
Evidence Summary: Illinoisans in 2018, like Americans in 1980, saw a state in decline under four dreary years of the Rauner administration. This is not a blip or an outlier or the impact of a recession that ended 10 years ago. These are the taxpayers who don’t want to keep getting stuck with the bill for the decisions Democrats in the legislature have advanced. We have Reagan to thank for, “Let’s make America great again.”

Claim: "By eliminating the public intervenors office, I was the first one to fire Kathleen Falk."
Evidence Summary: "The President has taken pride in shutting down government," she said less than an hour before the president's speech. Allison Kopicki, vice president of policy planning and research at the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, said in her resignation letter Thursday that she had been excluded from meetings and prevented from working on projects. She said Gov. Phil Murphy's office retaliated against her after she spoke publicly about an investigation into one of the Democratic governor’s senior staffers. "Having unsuccessfully attempted to abolish the office, the government has squeezed the budget, forcing the office effectively onto life support," she wrote.

Claim: "(Since 1990)every continent has seen substantial gains, with individual incomes growing by more than a third in every region of the developing world."
Evidence Summary: According to statistics from the World Bank and the UN, extreme poverty is currently at its lowest overall level in recorded history. Under 10 percent of the world’s population is now in that terrible state, and this year likely will bring a further reduction. As this implies, the poorest parts of the globe are successfully playing economic catch-up, with considerable success in Sub-Saharan Africa. But even in the Bank's central, relatively optimistic, picture there are some depressing prospects for the developing world.

Claim: "As a sign of extraordinary progress, there are half as many (primary-age) children out of school today as there were 15 years ago."
Evidence Summary: “Smaller class sizes, more support staff like librarians, counselors, nurses – staff we used to have at school all day, every day, and now get maybe one or two days a week if we’re lucky.” “Profit isn’t everything,” she said. “There are more important things out there, like educating our kids.’ “When girls are left behind, half the population is left behind”

Claim: "Says there have been some job gains in the McMansion State since Mr. Christie took office, but they have lagged gains both in the nation as a whole and in New York and Connecticut, the obvious points of comparison."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom’s new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. Gov. Rauner didn’t come close to backing up his parting boast, “I’ll put our track record of accomplishment up against any governor in the U.S. in the last four years.” Gov. Pritzker said he would work to make Illinois “the fastest-growing big state economy in the nation.’ “Both major parties ought to recognize the need to stanch an exodus of business and residents from Illinois.

Claim: "When Congressman Langevin took office, gas was around $1.70 per gallon, and now it is near $4 per gallon."
Evidence Summary: U.S. gasoline prices on the last day of 2018 were down by a quarter a gallon from a year earlier, according to the Energy Department. The outlook was much better for consumers at the fuel pump, where gas dipped to less than $2 in some locations. Not long after, President Trump took to Twitter to thank Saudi Arabia for keeping oil prices low. Experts said Trump can take some credit for the increased supply of gas that has driven prices lower, but that fuel economics is a hugely complex subject, impacted by many variables.

Claim: "Says Wisconsin state Sen. Randy Hopper, R-Fond du Lac, has already been recalled."
Evidence Summary: Details on some recalls were hard to come by Tuesday because agencies had furloughed most of their spokespeople. “Who’s going to pay for all the unfunded (pension) liability the state has?” said Craig Taylor, 55. Peterson also blocked provisions in the lame-duck law that block voters from using expired student IDs and temporary IDs older than 60 days as identification in the polls. He said those restrictions too closely mirror statutes he struck down in 2016.

Claim: "In Congress right now, were doing the best job we have ever done in women in the federal legislature, but its still only 19 percent."
Evidence Summary: 13 Republican women are in the House, the lowest number in a quarter century. Democrats took the House with help from a record-breaking 89 female members. “Despite that progress, women still do not represent 51 percent of elected leaders in this country,” Pelosi says. "But that's what's great about our Caucus. We're diverse, but we all come together when we’ve got to get things done," she says of GOP women in House.. The New York senator speaks about some of the issues she has confronted legislatively in the Senate.

Claim: "Theres only three countries in the entire world wheretheres no paid vacation by law, we happen to be one of them."
Evidence Summary: Critics say the government has not done enough to prevent employers from using the change to secure cheap labour. Many pay existing foreign workers below the going rate and force them to work long hours. A labour ministry investigation found that of the 6,000 firms that hire a total of 260,000 technical trainees, about 70% had broken labour regulations on illegal and unpaid overtime. Last year, more than 7,000 interns fled from their workplaces, with most citing low wages and long hours as the reason.

Claim: "An organized crime syndicate was extorting money from his (Tom Ganleys) business, threatening his family, but he fought back and won the FBIs highest civilian award"
Evidence Summary: Jose Irizarry is accused of conspiring with a longtime DEA informant to launder more than $7 million in illicit drug proceeds, sometimes using an underground network known as the black-market peso exchange. Officials described the case as one of the biggest black eyes in the history of the DEA, and one they fear could have compromised undercover operations in the U.S. and South America. The allegations have sent shockwaves through the DEA and drawn new scrutiny to the agency's Colombia field office.

Claim: "I am the only candidate who ran in either primary who said, I will not raise taxes on the middle class."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand said. "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner," she added. "We're not talking about make America great again; we’re great now. And I think what we have to do is make sure we do a better job"

Claim: "By releasing only basic tax information, former U.S. Congressman Nathan Deal is hiding more than hes disclosed about his business dealing with the state."
Evidence Summary: The Chicago Tribune requested four years of full tax returns from mayoral candidates, including all schedules and attachments. Democrats plan to use a 1924 law to demand that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin turn over Trump's tax records to the House Ways and Means Committee. Republicans remain obsessed with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email system, insisting Team Clinton was not only stupid and careless (it was), but also criminal (it wasn’t) The states paying more than they receive in Federal funding tend to vote for Democrats (such as Massachusetts)

Claim: "22 times Barack Obama said he did not have the authority to implement this type of anti-deportation measure. And then the day after he signed this into law, he said, quote, I just changed the law."
Evidence Summary: Trump falsely said that President Obama "admitted" that an executive order to defer deportations for 700,000 "DREAMers" "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States, undetected, undocumented, unchecked...'” Barrack Obama, 2005," Trump wrote on Sunday, quoting the former president in 2005. Obama made the remarks at a press conference with then-Florida GOP Sen. Mel Martinez, as part of a bipartisan effort to address illegal immigration. Obama's order shielded up to 5 million immigrants from deportation and bolstered protections for "D Dreamers"

Claim: "A clause hidden in the Obamacare bill, which is now law, gives Obama the right to form a private army."
Evidence Summary: President Obama once said that "no amount of American soldiers can solve the political differences at the heart of somebody else's civil war" The American constitutional tradition has profoundly opposed the president’s use of the military to enforce domestic law. A key provision, rooted in an 1878 statute and added to the law in 1956, declares that whoever “willfully uses any part of the Army or the Air Force” to execute a law domestically “shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than two years”

Claim: "Since 2009, Georgias public schools have lost nearly 9,000 classroom teachers while the number of students has gone up."
Evidence Summary: Some school leaders have complained about increased costs they've been forced to cover. State fiscal analysts project tax revenues will grow by about 2.5 percent each year for the new two-year budget starting in July. Department of Child Services is seeking about two-thirds of that money to keep paying for hundreds of new child welfare caseworkers added over the last few years. Today, 29 states have lower education funding than they did in 2008, and nationwide, education funding is about $450 lower per student than it was a decade ago.

Claim: "After years of 5.5 percent average tuition increases, we now have a two-year tuition freeze for the first time in the history of the UW System."
Evidence Summary: "You have to confront the fact - did universities compete on price? Party political failures," she says. "The board and administration need to resolve space use and unsustainable compensation issues prior to asking for more cash," she adds. "We have been engaging with our staff and our trade unions on this for several months, and continue to engage with them and to consider fully all options," says D86. "With costs increasing faster than our income, we have had to take action to reset the balance," the university says.

Claim: Make no mistake -- Sherrod Brown is one of the main D.C. politicians responsible for Ohio jobs moving to China.
Evidence Summary: Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown is launching a tour of three states that cast pivotal early votes in the 2020 presidential primary. The move from the Ohio Democrat is a key step before he decides whether to launch a campaign for the White House. Brown won a third term in November on the strength of a message he calls the "Dignity of Work" He hopes his brand of economic populism can counter President Trump's appeal to white, working-class voters that helped him flip Ohio and other key midwestern states.

Claim: "Ohio Republicans made significant gains during [Chris McNultys] time at the ORP, including the extremely successful re-election of President Bush in Ohio."
Evidence Summary: John Kasich: Florida stands out as the best political news from an otherwise grim year. He says Republicans need to compete with Democrats on bread-and-butter issues. Kasich: For Republicans, this means breaking their self-made mold of being naysayers instead of doers. It means designing market-driven, center-right solutions that actually solve problems while revealing their compassion, he says. The political shift in Johnson County seems to be accelerating, Kasich says. It's time for Republicans in our state capitals and Washington to get in step with the parade.

Claim: Says the federal government tells health insurance companies how much money theyre allowed to keep of what they receive in revenues -- 15 percent.
Evidence Summary: The hope is that pooling all the Medicaid recipients can lead to better deals. Under federal law, state Medicaid programs already get a rebate of at least 23 percent for prescription drugs. Several states already do what California has proposed, “carving out” some portion of their drug benefits. The administration says it is open to suggestions for 2020 and beyond, but the execution of its plans leaves much to be desired. The idea languished for eight years. Former President George W. Bush approved Medicaid spending caps in Rhode Island and Vermont.

Claim: "Since 2001, higher education in the state has been cut or allowed to erode ... by 35 or 40 percent."
Evidence Summary: The nation’s $1.5 trillion student loan burden weighs heavily on students and schools. The Great Recession reshaped the conversation in higher education to focus more on workplace skills and value. Several states now have performance-based higher education funding systems. But Illinois higher ed's idea of reinventing itself for the present and future doesn’t go much beyond asking for, yes, more money from taxpayers. The editorial essentially argues that CSU does not matter. It perpetuates rhetoric thatCSU “fails to educate” students and has an “egregiously low graduation rate”

Claim: "As the number of vaccines administered to children has increased in the United States, so has the autism rate."
Evidence Summary: Survey of more than 2,600 parents and 2,000 other adults found low understanding of vaccines. More than a quarter wrongly believe that a person can have too many. Only one in 10 parents said they believed what they saw on social media. The furore over the MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccine triggered in 1998 by the disgraced gastroenterologist Andrew Wakefield was responsible for a huge drop in take-up, which has largely now recovered in the UK.

Claim: "Scott Walker has even removed the 250,000 jobs promise from his website."
Evidence Summary: Walker didn't deliver on his signature 2010 campaign promise to create 250,000 private-sector jobs in his first term. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in up to 13,000 new jobs and a $10 billion investment. There were failures and distractions along the way. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could," Walker said.

Claim: "The Obama Administration wants to have soldiers and officers pledge a loyalty oath directly to the office of the President, and no longer to the Constitution."
Evidence Summary: For years we've had leaders who promised to end America's costly wars, only to cave in to the establishment view. "Our troops have done all we have asked them to do and more," then-Sen. Obama once said. So how did that guy turn into this guy? "As commander-in-chief, I have determined that it is in our vital national interest to send an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan," President Obama said. The entire purpose of the military is to serve and protect. A person in transition is simply not physically or psychologically capable of doing this.

Claim: "After Texas defunded Planned Parenthood, both the unintended pregnancy and abortion rates dropped."
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration is cutting short evidence-based grants for teen pregnancy prevention programs. A 2007 evaluation of four federal abstinence programs found that they had no impact on sexual activity or rates of unprotected sex among teens. "I do think it’s pretty clear that these standards are working and that given more time, they will work better,” said Karen Perry Stillerman, a food policy analyst at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The majority of the programs previously funded demonstrated young people changed their behavior in at least one of five categories.

Claim: "Says Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., only needs about 40,000 to 50,000 votes to win election to Congress compared with the 120,000 votes King needs, because Waters has a higher immigrant population."
Evidence Summary: The number of women in the House of Representatives rose to 102 last year, from 84 in 2017. In the U.S. Senate, the number rose to 25, from 21. That brings their percentage in Congress to just under 24 percent, or 127 of 535 members. California has been very intentional about improving voter turnout, adopting methods such as registering 16- and 17-year-olds. By moving the primary up, candidates “have to come here and earn votes,” he said.

Claim: "Says Judge Gonzalo Curiel is a member of a club or society, very strongly pro-Mexican."
Evidence Summary: "In Latin America they stigmatize the poor, the missing, the students," Agosin said. The day Socorro Corrales decided to walk with Francisca Machado to the cemetery she was angry. “It is very unfortunate that he chose this fight, he brought this closure on. We’ve offered solutions and I hope common sense prevails,” said newly minted Democratic Congressman Jesús “Chuy” García, D-Illinois.

Claim: "The Democrats' health care bill ""gives a new Health Choices Commissioner the right to look at an individual's tax return to determine what medical benefits or subsidies that person qualifies for."""
Evidence Summary: House Democrats say they're getting involved on behalf of the millions of Americans with health issues. Democrats see health care as a winning issue for them, and one of the main reasons they won control of the House in last year's midterm elections. Republicans have a different choice to make. They can use the results of the election as an opportunity to officially cede the ground they have already really lost: that preexisting condition protections and the ACA are here to stay. The proposed regulation is open for public comment for 30 days.

Claim: "In 2008, Maggie Hassan voted against legislation to prevent sanctuary cities in New Hampshire."
Evidence Summary: U.S. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand has reversed her position on New York granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. The New York Democrat previously opposed the idea, saying it would not be possible for people to provide for their families. She was the surprise gubernatorial pick to temporarily fill the Senate seat Hillary Clinton gave up to become secretary of state in 2009. She has since become one of the most outspoken advocates for eliminating Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) She is expected to launch her 2020 presidential campaign in Iowa on Saturday.

Claim: "As mayor, Barrett led efforts to redevelop the Menomonee Valley, which now supports nearly 4,000 jobs in Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: Regardless of what Walker does next, he leaves the governor's office having fundamentally altered the state. "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. To his critics, Walker divided and deeply scarred Wisconsin. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said.

Claim: "Says most states, but not Texas, permit jurors to ask questions of witnesses in trials."
Evidence Summary: Lake County public defenders Jeff Facklam and John Radosevich had sought a postponement of the trial until the witness, who they said was important to the trial, has been secured to testify. Judge Patricia Fix said she understands the witness “fears for his safety” if he were to return to the Lake County area. But she also noted this has been the sixth trial date for Jackson, and that the trial would move forward Tuesday with jury selection whether or not the witness shows up.

Claim: "At protests in Wisconsin against proposed collective bargaining changes, phony sick notes (were) passed out to excuse striking union members."
Evidence Summary: Whistleblower claims managers at Newcross Healthcare are 'vicious' and 'cut-throat' Newcross, which made £21m in pre-tax profits in 2017, failed to give sick pay to carers or nurses. Firm issued punitive fines when unwell workers cancelled shifts without 24 hours’ notice. Care homes were forced to send home sick agency staff who had turned up because they were afraid of being docked wages. In contrast to a strike, blue flu is a quiet form of protest, with no stated principles or claim for public attention or sympathy.

Claim: "Since Rep. John Boccieris election, Ohio has lost 600,000 jobs and his districts unemployment has doubled."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy created more than a quarter-million new jobs in a single month. Employers continue to have a great deal of confidence in the economy, regardless of the doom-and-gloom narrative professed by so-called “experts” The left-leaning media establishment is unable to restrain its insatiable desire for content to sustain the anti-Trump narrative – the facts be damned. The solutions cannot be limited to new revenue raised by expanded gambling and legalizing recreational marijuana.

Claim: "By the end of his first term, President Obama will have added as much debt as all the prior 43 presidents combined."
Evidence Summary: David Rothkopf: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. He says unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. The Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026, three years earlier than the projections in its previous report, he says. Rothkapf: Remember all the talk about the $20 trillion national debt that Trump inherited and how it would ruin us?

Claim: "Obama plans ""a tax increase for everyone earning more than $42,000 a year."""
Evidence Summary: I would like to be able to say that I have more than one thing to say to the world, but I can't say what it is that I want to say. I would also like to say what I think about the world's most beautiful woman, and what I would like her to say about me. I'd like to tell the world that I'm proud of the things that I've done, and the things I've seen, that have made me feel better about myself. But I also want to tell them that I don't want them to be afraid of me, because I'm afraid of what they will do to me, and I'm not sure what I'll do to them, too.

Claim: "Half the kids coming out of college this year cant find a job, or a job thats consistent with a college degree."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education. The 4 out of 10 students who start college and don’t finish in at least six years—some never. An estimated 20 percent of working adults have some college credits, but no degree.“I feel like that shows how much effort they are willing to put into their students,” Heathman said. “A lot of schools, and even professors, they’ll just let you fail and not even care because you’re paying for the class"

Claim: Heres the simple and undeniable fact: The overwhelming majority of violent criminals are Democrats.
Evidence Summary: Census analysis finds that illegal immigrants are less likely to be incarcerated for crimes than native-born Americans. Illegal immigrants accounted for 32 of 806 homicide convictions in Texas in 2016, the Cato Institute found. A February 2018 poll found that majorities of Democrats — but far fewer Republicans — think there's been little progress for African-Americans on criminal justice or policing issues over the past 50 years. While it's not yet clear how Harris' prosecutorial background could affect her primary bid, it could help her if she faces President Donald Trump in the 2020 general election.

Claim: "Says Rep. Charlie Bass, R-NH voted to raise his own pay eight times"
Evidence Summary: Republican House Speaker Brian Bosma said numerous school districts are short of that 85 percent target. The proposal wouldn't force spending changes on districts, but would require a state report listing their performance aimed at publicizing those with high levels of non-classroom spending. "I don't know if I'll be repaid or not. Can you help me figure this out?'" Slotkin did three tours in Iraq as a CIA analyst and now joins more than 100 new House members getting a crash course on the powers and limits of legislating.

Claim: "Says Bruce Springsteen only had 8,000 tickets sold for a Greensboro show and canceled after they didnt get the ticket sales they wanted."
Evidence Summary: Fyre Festival failures showcased in dueling documentaries. The California Rises concert almost tripled the annual revenue of the tiny non-profit that supports firefighters and fire victims. The Russian pop star who is said to have helped arrange Donald Trump Jr.'s meeting with a Kremlin-linked Russian lawyer cancels his tour of the U.S. and Canada "due to circumstances beyond [his] control," he says in a video on Facebook. "So sorry to hear the news about Jeff Bozo being taken down by a competitor," Trump tweets.

Claim: "In January, I outlined a plan to help revive our faltering economy, which formed the basis for a bipartisan stimulus package that passed the Congress."
Evidence Summary: "The American people right now are united, that they want sensible solutions to deal with the things that really cause them pain and suffering," he says. "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done" "As I commented in the early days of his administration, Trump and the congressional GOP should have had bills lined up like airplanes on a runway," he adds. "You can blame Ryan if you want, but Trump was the head of the party," says University of Tennessee law professor.

Claim: "The state Legislature attempted to ""outlaw stem cell research, passes bills about microchips in the brain, and talks about seceding from the Union."""
Evidence Summary: State and local governments are the proper place to test policies before they move to the national stage. Republican lawmakers in Kentucky have aggressively pushed bills to restrict the procedure since consolidating their hold on the legislature starting in 2017. “Within the last five or six years, you just got more and more of these solutions happening at the state and local level,” said Rep. John Sarbanes (D-Md. ), the bill’s chief sponsor.“We’ve got to figure out a way to get people more educated and to just stand up and take notice,’ Hunt said.

Claim: "TheCBO saysthe cost of health care reform will rise to $1.8 trillion, increasing the price to far greater than the $900 billion originallyprojected."
Evidence Summary: A House newcomer, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, is also known for her promotion of Medicare-for-all. Such proposals would lead to more government involvement in health care, and bring the U.S. a step closer to mostly socialized systems such as the British National Health Service. The popularity is driven by frustration with the current private insurance system, which remains costly on the individual market despite ObamaCare’s goals. But Medicare- for-all is estimated to cost tens of trillions of dollars over a decade.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton ""has the only health care plan that covers every American."""
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. The popularity is driven by frustration with the current private insurance system, which remains costly on the individual market despite ObamaCare’s goals. But Medicare-for-all is estimated to cost tens of trillions of dollars over a decade. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "In 40 years of broadcast, I have never endorsed any candidate."
Evidence Summary: Biden said that white Americans need to acknowledge and admit the fact that systemic racism still exists and must be rooted out. King has since walked back his remarks, telling NBC News' Kasie Hunt that he rejects white nationalism and white supremacy. King served as national co-chair for Cruz's 2016 presidential campaign, and the GOP senator was asked on NBC's "Meet the Press" about the inflammatory remarks. The nine-term member of Congress, who has a history of similarly racist statements, has already drawn a Republican primary opponent in his upcoming election.

Claim: "In New York, your chances of getting murdered are 1 in 25,000. In Honduras, its 1 in 14."
Evidence Summary: Homicide rates in Honduras peaked in 2011 at 86.5 for every 100,000 inhabitants, and have since decreased to 43.6. But that still works out to more than 10 murders a day – in a country with a population slightly larger than London – and is still the fourth-highest rate in the Americas. “Here in this country they just kill,” said Nelson Espinal’s mother, Sara Matamoros. ‘In this neighborhood they’ve killed tons of boys.’

Claim: "Georgia spends in the top 10 nationally on education, yet, most of our education metrics hover in the bottom five."
Evidence Summary: The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960. Georgia State’s six-year graduation rate in 2018 was 55 percent, up from 48 percent in 2011 before the program rolled out. The university has monitored its 52,000 students using 800 different academic risk factors, from how well they're doing in algebra to whether they've started to miss class regularly. Microsoft founder Bill Gates has visited the campus to see the data in action.

Claim: "Thanks to Washington, nearly everyone will pay more in taxes in 2013. Somehow people think its just the wealthy. Its not."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy over who does and doesn’t understand how America’s tax system works. What has been lost in the dust-up is that the wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. Republicans, particularly in the Trump administration, sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself — even when economists outside the administration, like the Joint Committee on Taxation, released models contradicting them.

Claim: "The 9/11 terroristsfriends, family, girlfriends in the United Stateswere sent back for the most part to Saudi Arabia. They knew what was going on. They went home, and they wanted to watch their boyfriends on television."
Evidence Summary: Minhaj: Saudi Arabia was basically the boy band manager of 9/11. Netflix said it took down the episode to comply with local law. Comments come as the US secretary of state embarks on a tour of Arab capitals. Mike Pompeo will talk to the Saudi leadership about the Khashoggi murder and the war in Yemen, urging support for the peace process begun in Stockholm last month. The Saudi authorities have charged 12 men for the killing on 2 October in the kingdom’s Istanbul consulate.

Claim: "Just 9 percent of Muslims in Pakistan viewISIS favorably. Unfortunately, that 9 percent is 16 million people. And thats just one country."
Evidence Summary: Indonesia's president said radical Islamist terrorism does not stem from ideology. Peter Bergen: China’s “re-education” policy is a major attack on Muslim people and their faith, Islam. He says the Muslim world has remained largely silent about the policy, which has been condemned by human rights groups and the liberal news media in the West.Bergen: Only a few Muslim leaders, like the Malaysian politician Anwar Ibrahim, have raised some public concerns about the issue.

Claim: "Says David Rivera received a $5,000 campaign contribution from Congressman Spencer Bachus, who is currently under House Ethics investigation for insider trading."
Evidence Summary: U.S. Rep.-elect Ross Spano had more than $75,000 in contributions flagged by federal elections officials for potentially insufficient reporting. The campaign cash was bundled by Club for Growth, a conservative special-interest group that often funnels small-dollar contributions to candidates it supports. A Spano spokesperson called the matter a simple “clerical error,” but it’s another black eye for the incoming rookie congressman, who increasingly faces a first term tarnished by campaign finance woes.

Claim: "As Dane County executive, Kathleen Falk raised property taxes by millions of dollars every year and approved the second highest increase in the state in 2010."
Evidence Summary: If the referendum passes, property taxes would increase an estimated $182 a year for a home with a market value of $200,000. Preckwinkle backed a pop tax on sugary beverages that passed the county board in 2016. It later was repealed following public pressure and a lobbying effort by the beverage industry and no longer exists. The county said it’s constantly performing audits of all types, and this exemption was found in several parking tax audits conducted late last year. But in recent months, parking industry officials said, the county has changed how it interprets the exemption by demanding that residential parking agreements be documented.

Claim: "More people were killed by terrorists in 2015 than in any other year ever, after an 80 percentincrease from 2014."
Evidence Summary: Global terror attacks fell 33 percent last year, while non-militant fatalities dropped by more than one-fourth, according to a new report. The study conducted by Jane’s Terrorism and Insurgency Center (JTIC) Global Index, was released Wednesday by business information provider IHS Markit. Major decreases in violence in Syria and Iraq in 2018, in the aftermath of ISIS being largely defeated in the region, is attributed to the 33 percent drop. The report also found that terror threats had grown more complex as ISIS lost territory and sought to inspire simpler but still deadly attacks on Western targets.

Claim: "The financial penalties imposed on gay couples can cost us more than $300,000 compared with married heterosexual couples over a lifetime."
Evidence Summary: Bev Nance, 68, and Mary Walsh, 72, married a decade ago in Massachusetts and have been in a committed relationship for roughly 40 years. When they applied to move into the Friendship Village senior living facility, they did so “because it is in their community, they have friends there, and it offers services that would allow them to stay together there for the rest of their lives” But once Friendship Village staff found that Nance and Walsh are married, they told the couple that they were not allowed to move in, because the home did not condone homosexuality.

Claim: "Governor Christie, his idea of jumpstarting the economy is to propose a trickle-down income tax cut last year and in his budget address this year, he stated his support for it again."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job. He offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. Other issues discussed included gun violence, health care, separation of children from their parents at the southern border, infrastructure, the increasing national debt, net neutrality and allowing legal marijuana dispensaries to deposit money in federal banks. Illinois Republican Party Chairman Tim Schneider characterized Pritzker’s agenda as “borrow, tax, spend, repeat”

Claim: "In fact, oil spills from tankers are far more common than the very rare leaks from rigs or pipelines."
Evidence Summary: Since the 2010 Deepwater Horizon incident, the oil and natural gas industry has updated or implemented more than 100 regulations. Since 2002 there have been 16 large oil spills in Alaska, five of them over 100,000 gallons, according to the Oil Spill Task Force. The Bureau of Land Management report estimates that future development in the North Slope could result in up to 1,745 oil spills by 2050. The Center for Offshore Safety is focused exclusively on enforcing current safety standards and creating new ones.

Claim: "In her short time in the United States Senate, the senator from New York, Senator Clinton, got $500-million worth of pork barrel projects."
Evidence Summary: The campaign featured scathing attacks on Pelosi from Trump and Republicans. Even some Democrats sought to distance themselves from Pelosi. Pelosi has historically “appeared to be proper and relied on this grandmother image,” but she’s actually a “very strong determined woman,’ said Rep. Jackie Speier, D-Calif. If the new members of Congress are able to govern as they campaigned, tirelessly, unafraid of hostile audiences, focused on improving individual lives, they might eventually pull politics out of the box.

Claim: "For several days in July of 2012, Greenland surface ice cover melted more than at any time in 30 years of satellite observation. During that month, an estimated 97% of the ice sheet thawed."
Evidence Summary: Greenland's enormous ice sheet is melting at such an accelerated rate that it may have reached a "tipping point," scientists say. The Arctic is warming at twice the average rate of the rest of the planet, and the new research adds to the evidence that the ice loss in Greenland is speeding up as the warming increases. Lead author Bevis said that once the melting starts in earnest, "there is no turning back." "The only thing we can do is adapt and mitigate further global warming – it's too late for there to be no effect," he said.

Claim: On job creation numbers in the latest Start-Up NY report: This is a significant number of overcounts in the compilation that Ive looked at.
Evidence Summary: The U.S. government said employers added 312,000 jobs last month. The strong showing could allay concerns about an economic slowdown in the United States. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. The just-ended year saw 2.4 million new jobs created. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion.

Claim: "The omnibus spending bill has 9,427 pork barrel items."
Evidence Summary: Trump's proposed wall, which has held up the federal budget and brought the shutdown into its 28th day, is likely to cost $20 billion to $30 billion. “Show me your plan, not your campaign promise,” he said, adding 41 suspected terrorists crossed into the U.S. from Canada. ‘There will be more stimulus, they have already announced some of the plans which are in approval stage and will be carried out over the course of the year,’ he said.

Claim: "In his very first budget, (Milwaukee) Mayor Tom Barrett broke his pledge to keep a lid on property taxes and has continued increasing taxes and fees ever since."
Evidence Summary: Preckwinkle backed a pop tax on sugary beverages that passed the county board in 2016. It later was repealed following public pressure and a lobbying effort by the beverage industry and no longer exists. And Chico’s reference to a new parking tax is based on a 6 percent county tax on parking reservations made through apps. “As President of Chicago Public Schools, I built new schools, not closed them. As mayor, I'll invest in the working families of our neighborhoods once again,” she said.

Claim: CEOs now earn 431 times what their workers earn.
Evidence Summary: UK CEOs make more in first three days of 2019 than worker's annual salary. Top executives now earn 133 times more than the average worker. In 1998, the ratio was 47. The salary of the average FTSE chief executive is the same as 386 Britons on minimum wage combined. This in a country where workers have suffered the worst squeeze in wages for generations. The figures have prompted criticism from both unions and shareholder groups. The TUC was naturally enraged by the findings, but the free-market thinktank, the Institute of Economic Affairs, was among a small band to cry foul.

Claim: "When the auto industry was going under, car parts companies like Johnson Controls begged taxpayers for a bailout, and they got one."
Evidence Summary: General Motors code named its November announcement to cut nearly 15,000 jobs in North America and restructure itself “Turbo’ Wall Street investors cheered the ambition to get smaller and boost profits. But in Washington, the move remains a public relations crisis that threatens to derail a methodical effort by Chief Executive Mary Barra to keep GM in good graces with the White House and other politicians. Around £100bn was wiped off the value of car firms last year, with the pain felt on production lines and in boardrooms around the world.

Claim: "When President Obama landed in Cuba on Air Force One, no leader was there, nobody, to greet him -- perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air Force One."
Evidence Summary: Castro says new generations of Cubans have "assumed the mission of constructing socialism" He accuses "the far right" in Florida - where many Cuban exiles live - of having "confiscated US policy towards Cuba" "I reiterate our willingness to coexist in a civilised way despite our differences," he says. BBC Central America correspondent Will Grant says Mr Diaz-Canel faces a huge battle in satisfying the demands of today's young Cubans. "There is a collective weariness that has festered over time after so much frustration and oppression," she says.

Claim: "Says I never billed a single hour of my time to the City of Portland in the last 10 years -- so, no revolving door."
Evidence Summary: Winter is a slow time for tourism in the District. All 17 of the city’s Smithsonian museums are world-class and free to the public. The government shutdown and subsequent closing of all 17 museums had drawn business to a halt, a vendor says. "We’re not going to stop and just say, ‘Oh this is a cost of doing business,’” she says. “I could empathize with that,” Hatcher says of Freeman-Wilson's criticism.

Claim: "Minimum wage = $16,000/year CEO-Goldman Sachs (Lloyd Blankfein) $16,000/Hour."
Evidence Summary: Workers are pushing to increase minimum wage to $20 an hour as Wells Fargo continues to post multibillion-dollar profits. Wells Fargo saved an estimated $3.7bn annually from Trump’s tax cuts and has authorized $40.6bn in stock buybacks since the tax cut passed. Last month, 312,000 jobs were created, significantly outpacing economists' expectations. Since Trump's election, more than five million net new jobs have been created. More than 75 percent are living paycheck to paycheck, and more than 40 percent don’t have $400 in cash in the bank to cover emergencies.

Claim: "Obamas stimulus, passed in his first month in office, will cost more than the entire Iraq War."
Evidence Summary: Trump: "This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors. Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling" Trump: "We spend in Afghanistan more in one month than what we’re talking about for the wall’ Trump: “Because you have the right to have a Secretary of Defense whose views are better aligned with yours on these and other subjects, I believe it is right for me to step down.”

Claim: "Janice Hahn hired hard-core gang members with taxpayer money to be gang-intervention specialists. She even helped them get out of jail, so they could rape and kill again."
Evidence Summary: Toni Preckwinkle's book highlights the influences that shaped her. The book attempts to pre-empt criticism of her tenure as prosecutor as insufficiently progressive. The attacks, she says, set up a “false choice” between tough prosecution of violent crime and criminal justice bias, especially in the fruitless war on drugs. The Cook County board president is facing the revelation that federal authorities have accused one of Chicago’s most entrenched old-school politicians of shaking down a restaurant magnate.

Claim: "According to Wikipedia, there are only five countries in the entire planet that are more unequal than the United States in the distribution of our wealth."
Evidence Summary: Between 1980 and 2016 the poorest 50% of humanity only captured 12 cents in every dollar of global income growth. By contrast, the top 1% captured 27 cents of every dollar. The world’s 2,200 billionaires grew 12% wealthier in 2018, while the bottom half of humanity got 11% poorer. Oxfam said that in addition to tackling inequality at home, developed nations currently failing to meet their overseas aid commitments could raise the missing billions needed to tackle extreme poverty in the poorest countries by increasing taxes on extreme wealth.

Claim: Michelle Nunns foundation directed grants to an Islamic group tied to radical terrorists.
Evidence Summary: The group plans to submit a new FEC complaint, but they can’t do so until the partial government shutdown is over. A Waters spokesperson did not respond to calls and emails from Fox News. The charter school organization supporting Villaraigosa was largely bankrolled by former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Netflix CEO Reed Hastings. Liberal groups accounted for 54% of the $150 million in dark-money spending in last year’s election cycle, conservative groups 31% and nonpartisan or bipartisan groups 15%.

Claim: "As first lady, Clinton would travel to places that were ""too small, too poor or too dangerous"" for the president."
Evidence Summary: The Financial Times reported on Friday that the name of Ivanka Trump is “floating around Washington” regarding the need for a new president of the World Bank. But on politics Twitter, at least, the idea that his replacement might be the first daughter met with widespread derision. Trump grounded Pelosi the day after she suggested that he postpone his State of the Union address until the government shutdown was over. A White House official told NBC News that all delegations planning to travel overseas that intended to use federally funded military aircraft had been grounded.

Claim: "Under Obamacare, people who have a doctor theyve been seeing for the last 15 or 20 years, they wont be able to keep going to that doctor."
Evidence Summary: In early 2017, I offered advice to incoming Trump administration officials on how they ought to handle health care. I suggested proceeding incrementally and continuing to expand access to care and preexisting condition protections. Instead, Donald Trump consumed much of his first year as president on an ill-conceived adventure to repeal the Affordable Care Act. At the risk of being ignored a second time, I offer members of the new Congress advice as they begin their terms. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began.

Claim: "Says Donald Trump promised to repeal Obamacare, build a wall, ban Muslims, and more."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump is set to address the nation about the ongoing partial government shutdown and his demands for a border wall on Tuesday night. Trump has long turned to mistruths and outright lies in an effort to get the structure funded. Here are some of the biggest falsehoods the president is likely to tell on Tuesday. The border wall that he championed during his presidential campaign was the main reason Trump delivered his White House address on Tuesday, and he made some claims that were right, and some that weren't.

Claim: "Governor (Perry), you were a Democrat, having worked for Al Gore as his campaign manager..."
Evidence Summary: Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. In his first run for public office against then-Sen. Ted Kennedy (D) in 1994, Romney declared himself a strong supporter of abortion rights. In 2012, facing a much different electorate, Romney abandoned that stance and called for defunding Planned Parenthood to win the evangelical-heavy Republican presidential primaries. Yet just as soon as Trump won the presidency, Romney opportunistically changed his tune, prostrating himself before the president-elect in a desperate attempt to be named his new secretary of state.

Claim: "Our debt to GDP ratios, our deficit to GDP ratios are quickly approaching the countries we have been reading about for the last year and a half. We are not far behind Ireland, Greece, Portugal and Spain and all these countries we have been reading about."
Evidence Summary: The obsession with debt is looking foolish even at full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits."The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," Blanchard says. "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to." "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he adds.

Claim: "By 12th grade, more than 3 out of 10 girls have been pregnant at least once."
Evidence Summary: The rate of women between the ages of 40 to 44 becoming first-time moms has been rising since the early 80s. The reasons include careers, a less-than-ideal relationship status, or finances. Sex education in schools should equip young people with the right negotiating skills to enable them to have safe and positive first sexual experiences. If you think you might have sex, ask yourself:Does it feel right? Do I love my partner? If you are having fertility issues, try to use eggs from a younger person.

Claim: "The Iraq war has been ""our longest war."""
Evidence Summary: President Trump tweeted that the U.S. would stop getting tangled in "endless wars" He said the military's role in these conflicts will "eventually come to a glorious end" In 2018, civilian casualties were higher than in any other year in the war. More than 28,000 soldiers and policemen have been killed in the last three years alone in Afghanistan.. A major reason is that we have never been clear about the overall mission of our engagement. We need to have a long term strategy not governed by tweets.

Claim: "The United States is about to have the smallest Army since before WWII, the smallest Navy since WWI and the smallest Air Force ever."
Evidence Summary: Trump says he is directing the Department of Defense and the Pentagon to "immediately begin the process necessary to establish a space force as the sixth branch of the armed forces" The big increase in the defense appropriations for fiscal 2019 is almost all going to the military. “The U.S. Military’s Crisis of Imagination,” Douglas J. Feith and Seth Cropsey do an excellent job highlighting the major issues set forth by the National Defense Strategy Commission last month (op-ed, Dec. 20). But they veer off course dramatically by assuming that the grave problems in U.s. defense capability and strategy will be solved by increased defense appropriations from Congress.

Claim: [Federal] law says that you cant give in-state tuition to an illegal alien unless you first offer it to any other student regardless of their state of residence.
Evidence Summary: Unlawful residents are prohibited from receiving financial assistance under a law enacted in 1980. Under current rules, a mixed-status family can receive pro-rated housing aid as long as one member of the family is a citizen or legal resident. The Trump administration says the rule would eliminate that regulatory “loophole’ while trimming housing waitlists for American citizens. About 25,000 families now living in federally subsidized housing have an ineligible member, according to HUD. The bill would implement a minimum income requirement for the new "provisional protected presence," as well as a "public charge" consideration.

Claim: "The most realistic estimates for jobs created by Keystone XL are maybe 2,000 jobs during the construction of the pipeline."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. The Keystone XL project is being delayed by a federal court that found the Trump Administration didn't fully consider the environmental effects when it approved the permit for the 1,184-mile (1,900 kilometer) pipeline, intended to ship up to 830,000 barrels a day.

Claim: "When [Mitt Romney] was the governor of Massachusetts, he performed 100 and Im not sure this number is right, but my mind says its about 180 gay marriages."
Evidence Summary: Gabbard spoke on behalf of the Alliance for Traditional Marriage and Values, a group headed by her father. The group drew controversy for supporting so-called conversion gay therapy, which views homosexuality as a mental illness. Gabbard also gave a lengthy speech at the Hawaii State House against a proposed resolution that addressed the bullying of gay students in public schools. Newsom’s role in this battle for equality for the LGBTQ community eventually led to nationwide legislation supporting same-sex marriage in 2015. Jared Polis, the first openly gay man to be elected governor of a U.S. state, was sworn in Tuesday.

Claim: "For every time the state gets paid a dollar in taxes (on gambling), somebody loses $6."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Conservative United board member Jane Carrell sarcastically said that the flight of taxpaying citizens to other states apparently is not going quickly enough. She added that lawmakers can’t seem to find the possibility of savings within the state budget. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Carrell said. "Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy," Walczak said.

Claim: "For decades before I was elected, governors tried and failed to get Minnesota out of the top 10 highest-taxed states in the country. I actually did it."
Evidence Summary: Pritzker signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. He vowed to propose, debate and pass a balanced budget. “It won’t be easy, but let’s confront this challenge with honesty,” Pritzker said in an inauguration speech that cast forward a policy agenda he advocated on the campaign trail. ‘This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for,’ he said.

Claim: "In the U.S., African-Americans continue to be arrested at nearly three and one half times the rate of whites on marijuana charges."
Evidence Summary: In the 1930s, numerous media reports exaggerated the connection between marijuana use by black people and violent crimes. Philando Castile, of St Paul, Minnesota, in 2016; Michael Brown, of Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014; and Keith Lamont Scott, of Charlotte, North Carolina, all killed by police who used some version of this bogus defense. As a woman of color, I consider it my duty to make sure that the racist origins of marijuana prohibition are not forgotten. It was criminalized in the United States not because of public health concerns, but to advance a racist agenda.

Claim: "Harris County, Texas has some of the highest jailing and incarceration rates in the U.S. and the world."
Evidence Summary: Violent crimes in El Paso have fallen sharply from about 6,500 in 1993 to around 3,000 today. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. Activists see parallels in the strategies of opponents of more lenient sentencing laws in California and the rhetoric on crime at the national level. In Memphis, which has one of the highest per-capita murder rates in the country, officers are "accustomed to dealing with issues like this," said Michael Williams, president of the Memphis Police Association.

Claim: "Three years ago, John McCain said, ""Afghanistan we don't read about it anymore in papers because it succeeded."""
Evidence Summary: After 17 years, it's well past time to wind down America’s longest war, writes Julian Zelizer. Zelizer: U.S. invasion and occupation of Afghanistan sought to deny al-Qaeda a base for its operations. He says the use of military occupations to disrupt terrorist havens is as antiquated as it is ineffective. Even the most strident hawks understand that the war in Afghanistan is unwinnable, Zelizer says, and the alternative to withdrawal is to maintain an indefinite troop presence.

Claim: "You know, Sen. McCain said the other day that we might have troops (in Iraq) for 100 years..."
Evidence Summary: "Our troops have done all we have asked them to do and more," then-Sen. Obama once said. "No amount of American soldiers can solve the political differences at the heart of somebody else's civil war," he added. "Our troops are coming out," he said this week. "I think we certainly need to be talking about how we end these wars, but I don't think you can do it and say, you know, as we just announced in Syria we're just pulling out," Rep. Ryan said.

Claim: "Says high-speed rail would have created 60,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: High-speed rail project’s CEO said that service could be reduced by four trains an hour. HS2 could be forced to run fewer trains at slower speeds in order to keep the project within budget. The government-backed infrastructure development has faced criticism for “misleading MPs’ with price estimates that were hundreds of millions of pounds too low. But at the end of this pain, the government believes, the high-speed network will deliver a massive economic boost and regeneration.

Claim: "Since President Obama took office, 2 million jobs. Gone."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. During President Obama’s last six quarters in office, economic growth averaged a near-recessionary low of 1.5 percent. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created under Trump, compared to a net loss of over 200,000 under Obama. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Obama, who was elected in the teeth of the worst recession in living memory, added 10m jobs.

Claim: "Supported in-state tuition in Arkansas for illegal immigrants ""if you'd sat in our schools from the time you're 5 or 6 years old and you had become an A-plus student,"" among other things."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., blasted President Trump following his primetime address from the Oval Office on Tuesday night. The congresswoman accused Trump of “holding the paychecks of everyday Americans hostage” during the partial government shutdown in order to fulfill what she called a “campaign fantasy’’ She said immigrants commit crimes at a far lower rate than native-born Americans and that the women and children on the border are acting more American than any person who seeks to keep them out.

Claim: "Health insurance premiums ""have almost doubled ... since 2000."""
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare.Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years.

Claim: "Our economy could fall $1 trillion short of its full capacity, which translates into more than $12,000 in lost income for a family of four."
Evidence Summary: Bostic said the current partial shutdown of the U.S. government has left hundreds of thousands of federal employees without a paycheck. If the Internal Revenue Service, for example, can’t process tax refunds, “that has implications for the robustness of the economy in real time,” Bostic said. Surveys show that about 40 percent of families in America don't have enough savings to cover an emergency expense like unexpected medical bills or paying rent if they’re temporarily without income.

Claim: "To pay for government growth, leaders of both parties borrowed $4 billion a day, leaving us with todays $14 trillion debt."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. The world has been too obsessed in recent years with the supposed costs and risks of government debt, says Olivier Blanchard. This view, known as modern monetary theory, rests on false..."This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors," he says.

Claim: "Says that except for Donald Trump, every other major party nominee for the past 40 years has released their tax returns."
Evidence Summary: Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, will step down when the new attorney general is confirmed. A progressive tax group argues that Democrats should make it their top priority to obtain Donald Trump's tax returns. Trump could repeat some of the statistics that other administration officials have cited misleadingly, ABC News' Pierre Thomas says. The president is expected to make a speech on the economy on Tuesday. The speech will be hosted by CNN's "Larry King Live" at 8 p.m. ET.

Claim: "Senate Bill 1070, simply, just mirrors federal law."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Nisly says. "Other states should be copying us, instead of us trying to copy other states," he adds. "This gives equal protection for all, the way that we already have it," he says. “This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for,” he says of the new law. "I see no reason why the bills that are ready to go and on which we’ve achieved an agreement should be held hostage"

Claim: "The ""pay-as-you-go law ... was a big reason why we had record surpluses in the 1990s."""
Evidence Summary: The 'pay as you go' rule requires that any increase in entitlement spending be offset by cuts in other entitlement programs, or by new revenue raisers. The deficit jumped by 17 percent in 2018, after the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul passed in 2017. While managing a yawning deficit may be a priority for presumed incoming House speaker Nancy Pelosi, it angers progressives who oppose cutting some entitlement spending in order to increase funding for other programs. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez was one of only three Democrats to vote against the rules package because of the inclusion of pay-go.

Claim: "In 1998, nearly half of Floridas fourth-graders were functionally illiterate. Today, 72% of them can read."
Evidence Summary: Teachers in Los Angeles public schools went on strike last week, holding 500,000 kids and their parents hostage. The Los Angeles Unified School District boasts of graduating about 80 percent of students. Only 60 percent of those who graduated actually completed the necessary coursework, reflecting an unfortunate practice of passing students who don’t actually make the grade. According to one recently published study, funding for California schools falls 38% short of where it should be to meet needs defined by the state. Likewise, while richer California students are keeping up with their peers in learning to read, lower-income students are as much as one grade behind the national average.

Claim: "In the late 1980s, the U.S. was nearly the lowest-taxed nation in the world, and a quarter century later were nearly the highest."
Evidence Summary: From the 1930s to the 1980s, the U.S. came as close as any democratic country ever did to imposing a legal maximum income. Conservatives often present this history as evidence that there isn’t much to be learned from the eye-popping rates of the 1950s, 60s, and 70s. The point of high top marginal income tax rates is to constrain the immoderate, and especially unmerited, accumulation of riches. Just as the point of taxing carbon is not to raise revenue but to reduce carbon emissions, high tax rates for sky-high incomes do not aim at funding Medicare for All.

Claim: "There are 100 members of the U.S. Senate. Fifty-seven of them, including Russ Feingold, are lawyers. There are zero manufacturers and one accountant."
Evidence Summary: Proponents of aggressive antitrust enforcement are excited about Cicilline's rise to the chairman’s seat on the antitrust panel. Reid was prescient in urging the Obama administration and congressional Republicans to go public about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. The appointment to the federal bench of an unprecedented number of conservative judges, including two Supreme Court justices who might well end up hearing a challenge to the Affordable Care Act, was made vastly easier by Reid's decision to get rid of the filibuster for judicial appointments.

Claim: "Democrats have said that ""even one hearing (on the stimulus bill) would be one too many, and that we have a single day to approve these five complex propositions that will affect the lives of millions."""
Evidence Summary: In the new Congress, Democrats are making campaign finance reform their first priority. The bill has a zero percent chance of passing the Senate, much less being signed into law. The public’s reaction to the idea of economic recovery legislation, which had started out positive, turned sour within weeks. The Democrats passed the stimulus in the House without a single Republican vote, but in the Senate they needed support from three Republicans to get the 60 votes necessary to overcome then-Minority Leader Mitch McConnell's filibuster.

Claim: "Do you know which state has the worst ratio of white voter turnout to African-American voter turnout? Massachusetts. Do you know what has the best, where African-American turnout actually exceeds white turnout? Mississippi."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Bernie Sanders has tweaked his stump speech to focus more deeply on struggles specific to black Americans. Sanders got shellacked by Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton in the 2016 South Carolina primary. According to exit polls, black women alone made up 37 percent of the state’s Democratic primary voters in 2016. The book does not look at immigration, although the author has done so in a previous article and found that “native-born white and black Americans adopt more anti-immigration views in response to an influx of immigrants only when immigration is a nationally salient issue”

Claim: "The National Science Foundation awarded $700,000 to fund a climate change musical."
Evidence Summary: This year has also seen the rise of disruptive campaigning, for example Extinction Rebellion in the UK. The student strikes led by Greta Thunberg; and direct action in the US and Canada against oil pipelines. Scientists are not just disembodied brains floating in a glass jar, we are humans who want the same thing every other human wants, a safe place to live on this planet we call home. So while our work must continue to be unbiased and objective, increasingly we are raising our voices, adding to the clear message that climate change is real.

Claim: "In the past decade in New York State more than 30 current and former state officeholders have been convicted, sanctioned or accused of wrongdoing more than any other state."
Evidence Summary: Since 1972, 33 aldermen have been convicted of crimes related to official duties in Chicago. The litany of wrongdoing includes embezzlement, accepting bribes, ghost payrolling and the alderman who got a new tile floor in his basement from a grocer who needed a liquor license. Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles tallied more than 1,500 convictions for public corruption between 1976 and 2016, according to Simpson's study. The chief counsel to Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey came under withering questioning on Friday.

Claim: Why didnt (uninsured Americans) buy insurance? Because of the expense.
Evidence Summary: 14 percent of Americans were uninsured in the fourth quarter of 2018, according to a new survey. That's up from 11 percent at the end of 2016, and the increase has been steady since then. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. The Affordable Care Act began to expand health coverage through broadened access to Medicaid benefits for low-income adults and through subsidized private health insurance sold to low- and middle-income households beginning in January 2014.

Claim: "Nearly 100,000 people get shot every year. Thats 270 people a day and 87 dead."
Evidence Summary: "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets" "All these guys do is think and hatch plans and figure out how to get weapons. It's like a molotov cocktail waiting to explode" "I don't think it's a problem with the criminal justice system but a societal problem that people do tolerate disorder and minor assaults on the police to an unacceptable extent" "Let's see if you're lucky. I could feel the pistol against my head… and hear them pulling the trigger"

Claim: "Congress just passed another huge, pork-filled spending bill. The Democrats allowed less than a day to read all 3,400 pages and stuffed it with nearly 10,000 earmarks costing about $10-billion dollars."
Evidence Summary: Democratic Party has taken over control of the U.S. House of Representatives. The new Democrats' first actions are highlighting a party just as out-of-touch with the American people as the one that voters kicked out of the White House two years ago. Instead of jobs, health care or border security, the incoming Democrat majority in the House is making a so-called “reform” package their first legislative priority in the new Congress. The bill consists of speech-stifling regulations under the guise of campaign finance reform.

Claim: "[Renewable energy] projects . . . get us off foreign oil and away, step by step, from these foreign entanglements that we have to get into to defend our oil supply."
Evidence Summary: The last 15 years have ushered in an American energy renaissance. We're now the world's top producer of both natural gas and oil. Our net energy imports have fallen a remarkable 95 percent since 2008. Today, imports constitute just 19 percent of our total petroleum consumption – a 50-year low."We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "But they also lead to more investment in low fuel economy cars and more driving"

Claim: "Irans regime is responsible for more than 1,000 American casualties during the Iraq war and has plotted a terrorist attack here in our nations capital."
Evidence Summary: “I think the best we can hope for is not to get into a war,” he said, setting a low if tragically realistic bar. In theory, no Islamic country is better positioned than Iran to play a leading role in the Middle East. But that potential has been stunted because of Iran’s continued meddling in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Lebanon. “Our desire for peace at any cost led us to strike a deal with Iran, our common enemy,’ he said.

Claim: "We have a guy who is going to be speaker of the House in four years, and his name has been on the ballot one time."
Evidence Summary: "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself," he says. "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before," he adds. "But that's what's great about our Caucus. We're diverse, but we all come together when we’ve got to get things done," he concludes. "I think in this country right now, that there are a lot of people who don't feel like front-runners"

Claim: "We continue to see these isolated incidents of people trying to vote five, six times a day."
Evidence Summary: Technology and voting machines failed most in 2018. More money, easier registration and less partisan oversight would correct those problems and others. Most of the problems voters reported can be solved with simple, commonsense reforms. The most widespread problem we saw was the most predictable one: technology and voting machine failures.“In his first effort, Mr. Mueller did not obtain the sufficient number of registered voter signatures to be on ballot. This is no mere technicality. Voters are legally registered as voters and residents in the district or not,” he said.

Claim: "In annual surveys of Rhode Island communities that receive Drug Free community grants, many report that more than 50 percent of youth surveyed do not think daily marijuana use poses any serious risk of harm."
Evidence Summary: Alex Berenson’s new book, "Tell Your Children; the truth about Marijuana, Mental Illness, and Violence," is coming out at the right time, as more and more states are legalizing marijuana. Currently marijuana recreational use is legal in ten states (Washington, Oregon, California, Nevada, Colorado, Alaska, Michigan, Vermont, Mass, Maine, and Wash D.C.) Medical marijuana is now legal here and in an additional 23 states. More than 200 million Americans live in states that have legalized marijuana for medical or recreational use.

Claim: "In the 2011 legislative session, DEQs budget was cut 18.5 percent a disproportionate cut compared to other natural resource agencies."
Evidence Summary: The Park Service has decided to provide funds to clean up trash and clean bathrooms. The funds will also be used to open up accessibility to park areas as scheduled. The decision comes following reports of campgrounds closing at Yosemite due to trash buildup and restrooms overflowing with human waste, as well as reports of poaching and theft at lesser-patrolled parks. The Bureau of Land Management this week announced it is postponing the Arctic Refuge-related meetings after public outcry and a letter from a Democratic congressman.

Claim: "If you already have health insurance through your job, or Medicare, or Medicaid, or the VA, nothing in this plan will require you or your employer to change the coverage or the doctor you have."
Evidence Summary: Original Medicare usually gives you the most flexibility to choose your health care providers, but it's also the most complicated way to receive benefits. It's recommended that you supplement original Medicare with a Medicare Supplement Plan to help cover Medicare's substantial deductibles and copayments. During the 2019 Medicare Advantage open enrollment period, you can:Change from one MA plan to another.Opt out of your MA plan and switch to original Medicare.Elect a stand-alone Part D prescription drug plan if you lose prescription drug coverage due to opting out.

Claim: "Tennessee students now cover about 67 percent of the cost of their education at public universities, and some 60 percent at community colleges."
Evidence Summary: Tennessee Promise has been offering two years of tuition-free community college or technical school to all high school graduates, regardless of income, since 2014. It inspired President Barack Obama’s free community college push in 2015 and provided a model for a handful of other states that have launched free-college programs of their own, including New York, Oregon and Rhode Island. A report from the Institute for Higher Education Policy last year said the program does “little to remove affordability barriers for low-income students”

Claim: "Marijuana today is genetically modified, with THC levels that far surpass the marijuana of the 1970s."
Evidence Summary: Tom Berenson's new book suggests marijuana is not a cure-all medicine. He says the intensity of the anger – and speed with which advocates have moved to attack it – has been shocking. Cannabis advocates appear unwilling to accept anything less than full national legalization of cannabis, he says. The next time Democrats start talking about science, tell them that strong and reliable science and research don’t just matter when they fit the Democratic agenda, BerenSON says. He adds that the products being used today are more powerful than those used by the hippies of the 1970s.

Claim: "If youre from Syria and youre a Christian, you cannot come into this country as a refugee."
Evidence Summary: Around three times more people apply for asylum in France than in the UK. Others try to come to Britain for reasons including the longing to reunite with family. Dublin convention imposes no requirement to apply in the first safe country. In general an asylum claim should be decided in the country in which a refugee entered the EU and that secondary countries can return him or her to that one. Despite the lip service paid to the safety of those attempting to cross, the message of Conservative politicians and the rightwing press does not sound like ‘keep safe’ but “keep out’

Claim: Ive even cut my own salary -- twice.
Evidence Summary: In a national USA TODAY/Ipsos Poll last September, Americans by a similar 59 percent to 34 percent said teachers weren't paid what they're worth. "The rent is one full (two-week) paycheck, so that leaves me another full paycheck to pay the rest of the bills," says Allison Elledge, 46, a history teacher. In the survey, nearly four in 10 teachers say they had worked a second job over the past year to make ends meet. Almost three in 10 say they ran up debt during that time.

Claim: "When this campaign began, I said that weve got to end the starvation minimum wage of $7.25, raise it to $15. Secretary Clinton said lets raise it to $12."
Evidence Summary: Democrats introduced a bill Wednesday to raise the federal minimum wage to $15 per hour. The federal wage floor currently prevails in the 21 states that don’t already mandate a higher one. The push behind the bill shows just how much the debate surrounding the minimum wage has shifted within the Democratic Party. If it were to become law, the proposal would more than double the current federal rate of $7.25 per hour and supersede most state minimum wages. The benefits of a minimum wage increase are so great that even President Donald Trump has advocated for one in the past.

Claim: "In the weekend after the terrorist attacks in Paris, the White House said this couldnt happen in the United States. ISIS couldnt reach us here."
Evidence Summary: ISIS has claimed responsibility for the suicide bombing, the deadliest assault on U.S. forces in Syria since they entered the country in 2015. The White House said Trump was fully briefed on the bombing and issued a statement that stayed out of the debate. Pentagon assertions that the Islamic State is still a threat capable of deadly attacks. The attack complicates a messy plan for U.s. withdrawal, a decision Trump's senior advisers disagreed with before offering an evolving timetable for the removal of the troops.

Claim: "By 2006, the American people were overwhelmingly against the Iraq War."
Evidence Summary: The poll's release coincided with Friday's 46th annual March for Life in Washington. A whopping 75 percent of Americans -- including 56 percent of self-described Democrats -- also opposed taxpayer funding of abortion overseas. Most Clinton voters said they opposed the withdrawal, but just over a third did so strongly. Meanwhile, 81 percent of Clinton voters disapproved of Trump’s handling of Syria (with 66 percent disapproving strongly) and 93 percent of his handling of foreign policy (81 percent strongly)

Claim: "In 2001 and 02 . . . we had the pension system funded at (the)100% level in that year, and we did for two years at that point."
Evidence Summary: In 1989, Illinois lawmakers in the final days of legislative session passed a set of changes to the state’s pension systems. Under the old law, public retirees received a bump in their pension every year. But the bump was based on simple interest – 3 percent of the first year's pension payment. Now, under the new law, the state swapped simple interest for compounding interest. It's why previous administrations in Springfield and City Hall took “pension holidays,” which sound lovely but involved recklessly skipping annual contributions.

Claim: "As mayor, [Allan Fung] raised taxes three times."
Evidence Summary: Five Chicago mayoral hopefuls met with the Tribune Editorial Board in a livestreamed forum. They included Dorothy Brown, Bob Fioretti, John Kozlar, Susana Mendoza and Paul Vallas. We put our pension question to each, knowing how pols on the campaign trail in Illinois hate to discuss the bleak state of pensions because it’s a no-happy-talk zone. For a continuously updating blog of Talk of the County comments, go to newssunonline.com.

Claim: "Were importing about 10 percent of our milk supply. Were Americas Dairyland, but yet we dont have enough milk in this state to meet the demand for our cheesemakers."
Evidence Summary: Americans drank just 149 pounds of milk per capita in 2017, down from 247 pounds in 1975. Americans are turning their noses up at those processed cheese slices and string cheese. Americans don’t want to get their hands dirty doing hard work, a cafe owner says. “This is the sleepiest little town you could think of,” said Adriana Zizumbo, 31, who was raised in Columbus, New Mexico. The motto painted on the wall proclaims “Life is good in the Borderland.”

Claim: "Says, regarding the presence of classified information in her email, FBI Director James Comey said my answers were truthful, and what Ive said is consistent with what I have told the American people."
Evidence Summary: Mueller's statement was attributed on background to unidentified “people familiar with the matter.” A Washington Post follow-up story describing how the Mueller statement came to be was also attributed to anonymous "people familiar" with thematter. The president, his administration, and his allies pushed back on both of these weekend reports, saying that he has been much tougher on Russia through his actions than former President Barack Obama. The letter to Acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and DOJ Inspector General Michael E. Horowitz included significant new details, specifically concerning 2016 statements from then-FBI Director James Comey.

Claim: "In North Carolina, paid family leave is more popular than college basketball."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. is an outlier in not offering mandatory paid family leave nationwide. Nearly every other country in the world guarantees some kind of paid leave in weeks or months. California's policy would be a big step up from what the state currently offers: six weeks of caregiving leave, plus six to eight weeks for birth mothers through the state’s disability fund. “People don’t realize the recovery for women, even physically, is a lot longer than what's advertised in our culture,” said Ruth Milkman, a sociology professor.

Claim: "Statistics show one male cat can father 420,000 kittens in five years."
Evidence Summary: US fertility rate at a 30-year low, 16 percent below threshold needed for repopulation. Much of this is due to a fall in fertility among Hispanics, whose birth rates are converging with those of other groups. Total fertility rates represent the expected number of lifetime births per 1,000 women, given current birth rates by age. "Women are blaming themselves as individuals for something that is a deeply structural and societal problem," said one expert who wasn't involved in producing the report.

Claim: "Sen. Johnny Isakson voted for a trade agreement, with China costing Georgia 93,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: For decades, America's trade policy helped the people at the top and hurt working Americans. Trump broke with his recent Democratic and Republican predecessors by running as an unabashed opponent of international trade agreements. Unions and other left-leaning critics of past trade policy see Trump’s aggressive enforcement of trade rules in general and get-tough approach with China in particular as an improvement on the status quo. “There has to be a reimagining of what our global order looks like,” said Matt Stoller, a fellow at the Open Markets Institute.

Claim: "Last year, we borrowed $1.4 trillion -- or 41 cents of every dollar we spent. Over half of this debt is held by foreign investors."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. Interest payments alone could top spending on defense, Medicaid or children’s programs. There are some Americans who don’t care what foreigners think. But money talks — it supports millions of jobs — and now it's walking, to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars. But the president's numbers have been wildly different.

Claim: "Marijuana is a Schedule I drug, which you understand means that you cant do any research about it."
Evidence Summary: The National Academy of Medicine has released a report on the health effects of cannabis. It found either substantial or moderate evidence of an association between cannabis use and the development of schizophrenia or other psychoses. Schizophrenia and bipolar disorders are two of the most devastating neurobiological disorders and the ones that are often associated with homelessness and incarceration. For Democrats, supporting marijuana legalization is a way to mobilize young and minority voters. Ask them to refute decades of medical research that demonstrate the real harm caused by marijuana.

Claim: "The barber regulation here in Missouri is 10,000 words long.the book of Revelation is (also) 10,000 words long."
Evidence Summary: Congressional swearing-in note runs over 3,000 words. Author: "The existing English versions simply didn't do justice to the literary beauty of the Hebrew" "If you keep going verse by verse, looking at the commentary and wrestling with difficult words and so forth, you can get a little batty," author says. "I'm very particular — I write on narrow-lined paper and I have a Cross mechanical pencil," he says."It is no part of my case that I am always right," Sir Winston Churchill said.

Claim: The health care reform law offset[s] 6 years of benefits with 10 years of tax increases.
Evidence Summary: For 2019, the tax was delayed, resulting in lower costs for seniors, individuals with disabilities, and low-income Medicare beneficiaries. Without delay of the tax for 2020, these beneficiaries will pay the price. A message from Better Medicare Alliance: Seniors will experience higher costs if Congress fails to delay the 2020 Health Insurance Tax. Congress, don’t let our seniors down. Delay the 2020 HIT now. Follow us on Twitter Anna Palmer @apalmerdc, Jake Sherman @JakeSherman and Eli Okun @eliokun.

Claim: "Dan Webster supports privatization of Social Security, deep cuts in Social Security."
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s 70 percent marginal tax rate and Medicare for all have gripped the American imagination. The New York Times’ Paul Krugman slammed those partaking in a “constant effort to portray her as flaky and ignorant,” contending that “on the tax issue she's just saying what good economists say.” The social safety nets are at risk. Allowing President Donald Trump to destroy our federal government this way over a failed 2016 campaign promise is un-American.

Claim: "In Minnesota, well over 6,200 election-day registrations from 2008 proved fraudulent."
Evidence Summary: MassFiscal says it picked the 10 smaller cities surrounding Boston without any political motive and that they represented a variety of demographic profiles. In 2012, the Pew Research Center found that more than 3 million people were registered to vote in more than one state. In addition, 1.8 million dead people were on the voter registration rolls. In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. These purges, conducted against citizens for merely having missed an election or two, are a new form of voter suppression.

Claim: "Since Corey Stewart became chairman in November 2006, unemployment is up 150% and average home price sales are down $150,000."
Evidence Summary: U.S. home sales tumbled 6.4 percent in December, falling short of the weakest forecast, to their lowest level in three years. Compared with a year earlier, they were down more than 10 percent for the first time since 2011. White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow denied the report, helping the stock market pare some losses though the fresh concerns about U.S.-China relations kept share prices in check. Most analysts have been telling us for months that the markets could not sustain the high peaks they have enjoyed in the last 18 to 20 months.

Claim: "Under Obamas plan (for welfare), you wouldnt have to work and wouldnt have to train for a job. They just send you your welfare check."
Evidence Summary: Trump often bashes recipients of the benefits. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence, with healthcare, a pension and paid time off."Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. I'm just hoping this government opens up," she said.

Claim: "The economy, by every metric, is better than when I came into office."
Evidence Summary: "I applaud the president for re-evaluating what he's doing," Hassett said. The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. In reality, presidents don’t control the business cycle, and to Trump’s recent frustration, they don't control the Federal Reserve, either. It's unfortunate that basic economic data have been drafted into America's all-consuming partisan wars.“The United States has a great economic story to tell. Number one in the World, by far!”

Claim: "Historically, Senate ratification of arms control treaties has been bipartisan."
Evidence Summary: “Republicans just need to stay together, and I believe that will happen,” Mr. McConnell says. “The legislative process is a negotiation.” “Maybe the Democratic Party was for secure borders before they were against them,’ he said. � “Or maybe they’re just making it up as they go along. Or maybe they are that dead-set on opposing this particular president on any issue, for any reason, just for the sake of opposing him”

Claim: "Says the House Rules Committee is the only panel, other than the Intelligence and Ethics committees, not able to telecast proceedings in its main hearing room."
Evidence Summary: The rules for the committee state that two members must be on the Rules Committee. How much funding it gets will determine how effective it will be at producing recommendations with broad consensus. Several freshmen lawmakers, including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., have landed spots on the panel. The committee was slated to receive public testimony from longtime Trump personal attorney Michael Cohen on Feb. 7. But Cohen’s attorney and adviser Lanny Davis said Wednesday that his appearance before the committee would be “postponed” citing “threats against his family from President Trump”

Claim: "Says enrolling a student in a subsidized lunch program triggers an at risk designation, resulting in an extra $6,000 to $7,000 of state school aid per student."
Evidence Summary: The USDA assures that school lunch programs have funding through the end of March. But the Vance County school system said it's trying "to conserve food and funding" in a district where most students come from families with incomes low enough to qualify for free or reduced-price lunch. Fresh produce will be nixed in middle and high schools and reduced in elementary schools, and lunchrooms will stop offering bottled water and juice, among other changes announced in a Facebook post this week. Ice cream will be gone, too.

Claim: Job creation has gotten worse each year that Scott Walker has been governor.
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. Walker signed into law a litany of Republican priorities. They include making Wisconsin a right-to-work state and requiring a photo ID to vote. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus that could result in up to 13,000 new jobs and a $10 billion investment.

Claim: "Obamacare is so flat-out unpopular, that even the Obama administration chose to reject part of Obamacare last Friday, when they tried to throw out the CLASS Act, which is the long-term care function."
Evidence Summary: Survey: 74 percent – including 47 percent of Republicans – favor a national government plan like Medicare that is open to anyone. Results come after a federal judge in Texas ruled in December that the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, is invalid. The law remains in place as Democrats appeal that decision. The poll also found broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care, including letting some people buy into Medicare or Medicaid. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify.

Claim: "Gov. Rick Scott tried to kick 180,000 people off the voter rolls."
Evidence Summary: Automatic registration added 727,924 people to the rolls since launch in April. The law would prevent states from aggressively purging the voter rolls by removing people if they don’t vote and don't respond to a single mailer from the state. In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. These purges, conducted against citizens for merely having missed an election or two, are a new form of voter suppression.

Claim: "Today, when people retire in Galveston County, Texas, they retire making at least 50 percent more than they would ever get out of Social Security."
Evidence Summary: Since the financial crisis, older Americans have been increasingly staying in the workplace. Some see this as a positive trend, because it adds to the economy. But others rightfully view it with trepidation, because there's the distinct possibility that many of these elderly people just can't afford to retire. To identify the best place to retire in every state, 24/7 Wall St. created an index of 17 health and economic factors in counties and areas considered equivalent to counties by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Claim: "The EPA was asked about an environmental citation for the city landfill in Nashua, N.H. but didnt know why it was cited."
Evidence Summary: An article on Thursday about the E.P.A.’s shutdown furlough of most inspection personnel described incorrectly Angela McFadden's role at the Environmental Protection Agency. The article also suggested that problems with chlorine levels in water are especially common in rural West Virginia. The EPA hit a 30-year low in 2018 in the number of pollution cases it referred for criminal prosecution, Justice Department data show. The government shutdown has suspended federal cleanups at Superfund sites around the nation and forced the cancellation of public hearings.

Claim: "Says Republican gubernatorial candidate Scott Walker increased his own pay by $50,000."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Gov.-elect J.B. Pritzker will use his own money to bolster the salaries of some of his top state government aides. He will be the richest governor in the country when he is sworn in on Monday. His incoming Chief of Staff Anne Caprara will be paid a salary of $298,000 — $148,000 in state money and $150,000 more from East Jackson Street LLC. Rauner’s chief, by comparison, made $180,000, according to state records.

Claim: "Palin said stimulus money for weatherization required ""universal energy building codes for Alaska, kind of a one-size-fits-all building code that isn't going to work up there in Alaska."""
Evidence Summary: President Barack Obama signed a prototype Green New Deal into law in February 2009. It was wrapped into the $800 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The main goal of the stimulus was to save the economy from a depression in the short term, which is why its push to move the economy towards clean energy in the long term was largely overlooked. The details are still up in the air, but a massive climate investment is suddenly emerging as a tentpole of Democratic politics. The goal is to persuade the public that an extreme emergency justifies extreme actions.

Claim: "Says the Clinton Foundation accepted millions and millions of dollars from governments like Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Oman and the United Arab Emirates, which violated a ban on all contributions to the Foundation from foreign nations."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump called on Russia to find Hillary Clinton’s missing emails. Trump had been put on notice that it was illegal for his presidential campaign to solicit support from foreign interests. Federal prosecutors are investigating whether donations made to Trump's inauguration were made by foreigners. The Trump family has been banned by law from any charities for ten years because they used funds from their veterans charity for person gain.. Now Ivanka is being considered to run the world bank? Trump was warned about foreign solicitation by the New York state attorney general.

Claim: "Says Republican U.S. Senate candidate Ted Cruz opposes the DREAM Act, which is supported by 85% of Latinos."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Ted Cruz said Democrats are holding federal workers hostage by not ending the shutdown and refusing to vote on issues that they’ve moved on in the past. “Here’s the ridiculous thing about the position of Senate Democrats,” the Texas Republican said on “Meet the Press” on Sunday morning. ‘Dreamers’ need a path to citizenship, not merely a three-year reprieve,’ he said. Latino legislators say they are looking at working on a number of key issues this year.

Claim: "Says the stimulus bill sent tax credits overseas, such as tens of millions of dollars to build traffic lights in China."
Evidence Summary: Economist says he's surprised Beijing hasn't hatched a stimulus package to counter the slowdown. Apple and General Motors have complained that the tariff war is hurting their businesses too. The legal reasoning behind the Justice Department’s unusual reversal this week of an opinion that paved the way for online gambling hewed closely to arguments made by lobbyists for casino magnate and top Republican donor Sheldon Adelson. The U.S. Justice Department reversed a 2011 opinion that benefited online gambling in a memo from Adelson's lobbyists.

Claim: "300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance as a result of Obamacare."
Evidence Summary: 7.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, according to a new Gallup survey. That's the highest uninsured rate since the first quarter of 2008, when the rate peaked at 14.6 percent. The survey doesn't ask respondents why they don't have health insurance, but the report does point to several likely causes, including rising prices and policy changes made by President Donald Trump’s administration and the Republican majority in Congress. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including Obamacare.

Claim: "President Obama has worked to change Medicare for the worse by creating an unelected, unaccountable panel with the power to deny coverage of certain treatments."
Evidence Summary: The government had acknowledged that it did not know the precise amount of the difference between what hospitals were paying for the drugs and what Medicare was reimbursing them. Caitlin Oakley, a spokeswoman for Mr. Azar, said Monday: “We are disappointed with the court’s ruling and are evaluating next steps.” Dr. Robert A. Chapman, a medical oncologist at Henry Ford Health System, described the administration's action as an example of “reverse Robin Hood”

Claim: "According to one study, the minimum wage today is worth $2 less than in 1968."
Evidence Summary: Raising the minimum wage could help lower the incidence of these devastating diseases by bringing Americans out of poverty. A minimum wage increase would also help improve newborn health, authors say. House Democrats would be wise to maintain their focus on a minimum wage hike, they say. They won House control by focusing on health care, and increasing the minimum Wage could serve as yet another tool in improving America’s health. The Federal minimum wage is still $7.25, although plenty of states require employers to pay a far higher amount.

Claim: "For four years, we balanced the budget and paid off $405 billion in debt."
Evidence Summary: Sunday marks the second anniversary of President Trump's inauguration. At the midpoint of his four-year term, Trump has already delivered on some of his campaign promises. Other pledges have been all but ignored, like his promise to lead a $1 trillion infrastructure push. With many of Trump's promises, however, the record is somewhere in between — not exactly "mission accomplished," but not "mission forgotten" Either way, the U.S. economy is doing well, but the nation faces a $ 1 trillion deficit during brisk growth.

Claim: "Donald Trumps education plan to dramatically slash funding for public education would fire 49,000 Texas teachers."
Evidence Summary: At the heart of the strike is the issue of resource distribution. Los Angeles teachers complain of class sizes of up to more than 40 people. Many elementary schools only have a nurse for one day a week. “I don't think closing our schools, putting our kids in jeopardy, depriving them of learning that they need, is the best path to get more resources,” said one teacher. ‘I’m just conservative in my values and views and a lot of the things Mr Trump believes, I agree with,’ said Miami Independent School District principal.

Claim: Kip Kinkel and Clackamas Town Center shootings both where citizen with gun stopped the crime
Evidence Summary: Last year in Portland, Ore., police officers arrived as a “good Samaritan’ with a concealed carry permit was trying to break up a fight. The police saw the gun held by the permit holder — a Navy veteran, postal worker and father of three — and in the confusion shot and killed him. In 2016 in Arlington, Texas, a man in a domestic dispute shot at a woman and then tried to drive off. In 2014, a permit holder pursued a man who had robbed a phone store in south suburban Crestwood, firing at the fleeing suspect.

Claim: "If I had not asked for my emails all to be made public, none of this would have been in the public arena."
Evidence Summary: WikiLeaks says the State Department's attempt to pass-off its deficient search as legally adequate during settlement negotiations was negligence born out of incompetence. The 5,000-word message was labeled: “Confidential legal communication. Not for publication.” “I’m not hiding behind the right to immunity from prosecution,” he said. ‘On Facebook, everything that you share, you have control over.’ ‘I have nothing to hide from anybody’

Claim: "In the wake of hurricanes Katrina and Rita, offshore drilling ""did not cause any real difficulties."""
Evidence Summary: U.S. District Judge Richard Gergel recently barred the Interior Department from moving forward with its offshore drilling plans until the federal government reopens. Right now, nearly 94 percent of offshore territories are off-limits to energy explorers. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. Unlocking offshore resources would help not just energy companies, but every American that values national security.

Claim: "The Obama administration ""has been constrained by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which basically gives the responsible party the lead role in trying to not only fix the problem, but contain the problem."""
Evidence Summary: The US government is considering a ban on new oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. The move is in response to the Obama administration's decision to withdraw from the Paris climate accord. The White House says the move is necessary to protect U.S. oil and gas production from climate change. But critics say the move will lead to a loss of jobs and the loss of tax revenue. The US government says the decision is based on the best interests of the U.N. and the American people.

Claim: "Electric utility FirstEnergys annual revenues are greater than the GDP of Haiti, Kyrgyzstan, Iceland, or 15 African nations."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "This is not only about economic growth and power. A lot of this is about international security policy," he adds. "It would mean the concerns and opposition of people in the area are being ignored for a coal company that’s trying to grab resources and run," says the Kenyan government's energy tsar. "Customers should continue to shop around because they cannot rely on energy suppliers giving consumers a good deal"

Claim: "Under my predecessor, they cut funding for education, but they didnt give them anything in return to make up for that, leading to less money for school districts"
Evidence Summary: “We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.” “We are far from the $7 billion we need, but the belief that schools are not getting paid is fundamentally wrong,” he said. “I have two kids in junior high right now and one in high school. I want very much for them to go to a public school just like I went to public school.’ ““I’m going to continue to fight for my kids’ education,’ he said, “even if it’s not the best thing for me to do”

Claim: "George Allen voted for 40,000 earmarks."
Evidence Summary: CNN will take a behind-the-scenes look at a Senate committee meeting. The panelists will try to find a way to get a sense of what's going on in the room. They will also try to figure out how to get to the bottom of the issue at hand. The final panelist will decide whether or not the panel will be able to find out what's happening in the next few weeks. The next panelists are the House of Representatives and the Senate Committee on the Judiciary.

Claim: "All legislative mail, from the content to the timing, is approved by the speakers office."
Evidence Summary: "There is power in elected members of the United States Congress speaking up in the interest of their constituency and the American public," the draft letter says. "The legislative process is a negotiation," Pence tells NBC News. "We commit to working to advance legislation that can pass the Senate with substantial bipartisan support," the letter adds. "When an announcement of international and national importance is made, the government must ensure it is not premature and is verified," it says in a draft letter to members of Congress.

Claim: "Were above 800 million Muslims radicalized, more than half the Muslims on Earth Thats not a minority. Thats now a majority."
Evidence Summary: "We spend so much time in the media talking about Islamic militants as religious nuts," Pape told Morell. Most ISIS recruits are different than those that were targeted in previous years by Al Qaeda. While roughly two-thirds of Al Qaeda's recruits were immigrants, the reverse is true for ISIS. Over two thirds of ISIS recruits were born in the United States, and the other one-third have lived in the country for decades. The former Labour prime minister Tony Blair, in the foreword to the collection of essays, said: “Extremism based on a perversion of the religion of Islam remains the most potent global security threat”

Claim: "President Barack Obama wants to take in 250,000 (people) from Syria."
Evidence Summary: Seven children also died in eastern Syria, where violence forced many families to leave their homes. President Obama failed to carry out his promise to punish the Syrian regime for the atrocities it imposed on its citizens. The president has misrepresented the people seeking admission to our country as part of his strategy of creating demons, which he says only he can protect the country against. The left needs to confront the dimensions of the issue: The numbers of people from around the world who have good cause to seek protection here are far beyond what the country can absorb. Some reasonable method of deciding who can enter and what to do with those who cannot must be implemented.

Claim: "Under the cap-and-trade bill, homes would have to be retrofitted to meet energy and water efficiency standards before they could be sold."
Evidence Summary: The radical plan would force families to pay more to heat, cool and provide electricity to their homes. It would raise the same costs for businesses, farmers, government and organizations, driving up their operating costs. It includes many radical programs that have nothing to do with so so-called “green” energy. Building new homes to Passive House standards and retro-fitting existing buildings (all buildings) would reduce demand hugely. The heart of the proposal is a call for 100 percent carbon-free electricity before 2030.

Claim: "41,200 veterans in Florida dont have health care because Scott didnt expand Medicaid."
Evidence Summary: Department of Veterans Affairs has been dogged by patient backlogs, ethical scandals and unsatisfactory performance. The department is preparing to shift billions of dollars from government-run veterans’ hospitals to private health care providers. Critics say paying for care in the private sector would starve the 153-year-old veterans' health care system, causing many hospitals to close. These radical moves by newly elected liberal governors reveal a new movement among Democrats on health care in advance of the 2020 presidential campaign, the NYT reports.

Claim: [Hillary Clinton]s not trusted -- virtually at all.
Evidence Summary: In 2016, she alarmed fellow Democrats when she met with Donald Trump during his transition to president and later when she took a secret trip to Syria. “The more a woman is in service to someone else,” the more likable she is, Clinton explained to NBC News in 2017. Warren advocates for redistributive efforts far to the left of what Clinton campaigned for, even after her campaign was shifted into a more progressive position following the bruising 2016 primary fight against Bernie Sanders. The two women can seem to have little in common besides a party affiliation and a haircut.

Claim: "Under Hosni Mubaraks rule, Egypt received more American dollars than any country besides Israel."
Evidence Summary: American taxpayers send more foreign aid to Egypt than to any other nation except Israel. America's nearly one and a half billion dollars a year is going to a regime accused of the worst abuses in Egypt's modern history. Opponents of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi have been imprisoned by the thousands. Sisi denied in the interview that there are any political prisoners in Egypt, instead vowing that “whenever there is a minority trying to impose their extremist ideology” the authorities “have to intervene regardless of their numbers”

Claim: You know our current president is (Muslim). You know hes not even an American.
Evidence Summary: Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, previously has told Trump he "cannot do a damn thing" to stop Iran. "Some U.S. officials pretend that they are mad," Khamenei said. There are four other known American citizens being held in Iran. “I have never had any association with the Muslim Brotherhood nor (the Council on American-Islamic Relations) nor any terrorist organization,” Shafi wrote in an open letter to the Washington Post.

Claim: Says the typical homeowner will pay $4 more per month if library district passes.
Evidence Summary: Batesville, Arkansas, ranks among the best U.S. cities to live largely due to its affordability and community attractions and amenities. Most homeowners in Batesville pay less than $1,000 a year in property taxes, less than half the amount the typical American homeowner pays. Overall annual housing costs typically come to about $7,500 a year, roughly $4,600 less than the median costs nationwide. Goods and services are 16 percent less expensive on average in Batesvile than they are nationwide.

Claim: Five members of [the Common Cause Georgia] board accepted maximum campaign contributions.
Evidence Summary: Spano’s campaign failed to itemize donors who gave more than $200 to his campaign, as required by federal law. A Club for Growth spokesperson declined to comment. The story went viral online, prompting more than 14,000 people to donate to the campaign. GoFundMe has since refunded everyone who donated to theCampaign. Bobbitt, McClure and D’Amico all deny any wrongdoing. Each face charges of theft by deception, prosecutors said. Preckwinkle would go on to defeat Fioretti in the March primary.

Claim: "Every other democracy in the world has a health care system that covers everybody, and we don't."
Evidence Summary: Survey finds broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. In Canada, medical care is publicly funded and universally provided through the country's Provincial Ministry of Health.

Claim: "Says Tom Nelson backed higher taxes on Social Security, costing Wisconsin seniors $95 million."
Evidence Summary: Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who advised President George W. Bush, agrees that governments led by either party will eventually need more revenue. The demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker failed on both counts Tuesday when he tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million.

Claim: "On the last night of the General Assembly, by 11 oclock 95 to 98 percent of the business was done. So we really didnt have that late-night session. We were just holding on one bill."
Evidence Summary: "We sense the urgency of opening up the people's government," Steny Hoyer, D-Md., told reporters. Pelosi interjected to remind Hoyer that the meeting was actually planned for 11:30 p.m. "We will have votes next week — if government is shutdown, we’ve scheduled votes through Thursday," Hoyer said. "I do think it’s important that we remember getting things done is essential to getting rid of some of the cynicism out there," Pelosi said.

Claim: "Says his promise of 250,000 new private sector jobs was a big goal."
Evidence Summary: Sunday marks the second anniversary of President Trump's inauguration. Many of his campaign pledges, such as the renegotiation of Nafta, have been kept. Domestically, the economy is projected to have grown at post-recession high of 3.1 percent in 2018. Annual wage growth is at a nine-year high. 2018 was the best year for job creation since 2015. The administration has continued to slash federal regulations at a record rate, foretelling future economic expansion. President Trump delivered the promised U.S.-Mexico-Canada-Agreement, replacing the outdated and counterproductive NAFTA deal.

Claim: "Promotes a chart saying that Barack Obama has increased the debt by 16 percent, compared to George W. Bush, who increased it by 115 percent."
Evidence Summary: The nation faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles — if he has, his modesty would not have prevented him from mentioning it — the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. Most presidents don’t talk much about the stock market, for good reasons: It’s not a particularly reliable evaluator of presidential policies, or the best reflection of the state of the economy. Trump insisted he deserved the credit for a spectacular turnaround, repeatedly attacking the press for failing to acknowledge his genius.

Claim: "Says a man in Ferguson, Mo., was photographed holding a sign that said, No mother should have to fear for her sons life every time he robs a store."
Evidence Summary: Jazmine Barnes, 7, was shot in the head and died at the scene. Some activists and the family, who are black, believed the unprovoked nature of the crime pointed to the possibility of a racially motivated attack. The arrest of a suspect in the drive-by shooting of a 7-year-old black girl in Houston has eased racial tensions surrounding the case and prompted praise for the local sheriff who called for "important discussions" about race and gun violence. The family had identified the attacker as a thin, white male driving a red pickup.

Claim: "America has lost nearlyone third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997, following the enactment of disastrous trade deals supported by Bill and Hillary Clinton."
Evidence Summary: Manufacturing added 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. This growth was cheered by Alliance for American Manufacturing president Scott Paul. But bellwether American businesses from Apple to General Motors have blamed the Trump administration’s policies on trade for falling sales and lost jobs. Even CNN's Fareed Zakaria now admits as much, writing, "China has failed to enact promised economic reforms and backtracked on others, and uses formal and informal means to block foreign firms from competing"

Claim: "Says Rick Perry and the Republican-controlled Texas Legislature managed to slash the budget of the volunteer fire departments in our state by 75 percent in the last legislative session, reducing their abilities to fight recent wildfires."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump said he has ordered FEMA to cut off wildfire relief aid for California. The bizarre proclamation furthers the administration’s attempt to pin the devastation on environmentalists while ignoring the clear impact climate change is having on extreme fires. Since taking office, Trump has slashed the U.S. Forest Service budget by around $2 billion. Experts have warned for years that the move would put the country”s wildfire-prone states at immense risk. The same is true in Washington, where over 500 fires on federal lands burned more than 150,000 acres during the 2018 fire season.

Claim: [Former Georgia congressman] Bob Barr voted ... to raise his own pay.
Evidence Summary: Barr said Tuesday that he took the job because he’s “in a position in life to do the right thing” and not worry about the consequences. Senate Republicans are pointing to the support Barr received in 1991 – particularly from Biden – ahead of his appearance before the current Senate Judiciary Committee. Barr, I believe, in my working with him in the past, is one who wishes to accommodate a coequal branch of government and assist it in its responsibility of oversight. The proposal now moves to the full House, which must approve it before a new class of lawmakers is sworn in on Wednesday.

Claim: "Says Scott Walker wants to make abortion illegal, even in cases of rape, incest or to protect the life of the mother."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump spoke in a pre-recorded video to thousands of anti-abortion activists in Washington. The event is the largest annual gathering in the United States of opponents of the 1973 ruling in Roe v. Wade. Since the heated Senate confirmation hearings for Justice Brett Kavanaugh, the court has steered clear of some cases on volatile social issues involving abortion. With Democrats now in control of the U.S. House of Representatives, it might appear that the fight over abortion rights has become a standoff.

Claim: "McCain economic adviser Phil Gramm is ""the architect of some of the deregulation in Washington that helped cause the mess on Wall Street."""
Evidence Summary: Aaron Sorkin, the writer of The West Wing, is a Nobel Prize-winning economist. He tried his hand at The Glass-Steagall Act in the TV show The Newsroom. Paul Krugman, aNobel Prize winner, wears his learning lightly in his New York Times column. Ann Coulter went so far as to tweet her support for Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez’s proposal to raise the top marginal tax rate to 70 percent—and to suggest that it be applied directly to the Koch brothers.

Claim: New Jersey has the second highest rate of institutionalization of people with developmental disabilities in America. Only Texas puts more of its citizens -- confines more of its citizens -- to institutions than New Jersey.
Evidence Summary: Despite government pledges to halve the use of inpatient units, many learning disabled people are being denied life in the community. Campaigners fear the looming deadline to discharge patients from ATUs will simply lead to more people being discharged into equally restrictive places such as locked rehab units. At one ATU in the two years up to April 2018, almost 50% of people left to go into privately owned ‘independent hospitals’ which can include locked rehab placements. Far fewer people (roughly 15% each) move into supported living, residential care or to an NHS hospital.

Claim: "Says of Mitch McConnell,What can happen in 30 years? A senator can become a multi-millionaire in public office."
Evidence Summary: Bob Greene: Mitch McConnell's vision of his own history is unusual among Republicans. He says McConnell recognized his future in politics by high school and narrowed his ambitions to the upper chamber. Greene: From early in his Senate career, McConnell later wrote, “I wanted to one day hold a leadership position in my party, helping to call the plays and not just run them” Greene: The Senate majority leader wields an elusive kind of power, which dates back to the 1920s.

Claim: "Since taking office, President Obama has signed into law spending increases of nearly 25 percent for domestic government agencies, an 84 percent increase when you include the failed stimulus."
Evidence Summary: The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion, and is expected to balloon above $1 trillion next year. The Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026. The widening deficit comes despite a booming economy and a low unemployment rate that would typically help fill the government’s coffers. Federal spending outpaced revenue by $317 billion over the first three months of the fiscal year, which began in October, the budget office reported.

Claim: "In Virginia, Medicaid has grown by 1,600 percent in the last 30 years."
Evidence Summary: Democrats are aiming to take control of the state legislature this coming November. Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product. It ranks 26th in income equality, according to the American Community Survey. Mr. Carter has been a vocal opponent of the incentive package, worth more than half a billion dollars, used to lure one of Amazon’s new headquarters to Crystal City, Va. He fought against a bill overhauling the state's energy grid, arguing that it gave away too much to a powerful for-profit utility.

Claim: "If Austin voters reject Proposition 1, a completely new City-run criminal background check process will cost millions in processing fees, additional staff, and bureaucracy with taxpayers getting the bill."
Evidence Summary: Bail industry has backed a ballot measure to overturn the law, which has received enough signatures to go before California voters in 2020. In pushing the measure, the industry has offered contradictory arguments, sometimes suggesting that eliminating cash bail would mean more criminals on the streets. Other times adopting the argument of the liberal activists that the new law could, in fact, end up locking up more people in a manner that would be unfair to poor African-Americans. Jeff Clayton, the spokesman for a coalition of bail companies backing the ballot proposition, said the issue would be “focus grouped and polled” to figure out what the right message should be for advertisements in the run-up to the vote.

Claim: "In the states that allow open carry, violent crime was 23 percentlower."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik’s commentary distorted a few facts, Yvonne Smith says. While firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, 60 percent were suicides, she says. She says there is no credible evidence that permissive laws prevent or deter crime. Smith: States with right-to-carry laws experienced 13 to 15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates, over a period of 10 years, than comparable states. The researchers identified several reasons why permissive concealed carry actually increases violent crime.

Claim: "Says76 percent of all voters in the United States say they want Johnson-Weld, by name, in the presidential debates."
Evidence Summary: Bernie Sanders got 11 percent of the vote in a recent straw poll. That's compared with 15 percent for Beto O’Rourke, 14 percent for Kamala Harris, 14% for Joe Biden and 11% for Bernie Sanders. In a similar open-ended question asked of Republicans and Republican leaners in April 2011, 45 percent had no opinion. In Johnson County, where the majority of residents over 25 have a college degree and the median household income exceeds $80,000, Mr. Trump beat Hillary Clinton by 3 percentage points.

Claim: "Many of (Hillary Clintons) friends took bigger deductions (than me). Warren Buffett took a massive deduction. (George) Soros, who is a friend of hers, took a massive deduction."
Evidence Summary: In 1980, a fifth-grader whose allowance was less than $44 a week would have owed no tax at all on the 10-spot grammy paid for doing chores. The progressive billionaires — Oprah Winfrey, Warren Buffett — are a different breed of fat cat. Mr. Buffett, the third-richest man in the world, has been saying “Tax me more” for years. Last year, Tom Steyer spent more than $100 million of his own money helping Democrats get elected, and he says he will drop another bundle on Senate races in 2020.

Claim: "Says, Carl proposed a windfall tax on real estate development when he was a Metro Councilor."
Evidence Summary: Many families hitting the $10,000 limit on SALT deductibility don’t see themselves as rich. CTU execs, like several mayoral candidates, see Gov. J.B. Pritzker as their ultimate savior. “A bigger question is how to get tax relief to people,” Baron said. The village actually represents about 17 percent of our tax levy. We could slash village government by one-third and only impact taxes by about 5 percent, he said.

Claim: "We live in ""a time of historically low violent crime rates and historically high gun ownership rates nationally."""
Evidence Summary: Murders in Chicago fell by about 100 in 2018, but the figure still remains higher than the number of homicides in Los Angeles and New York combined. The Chicago Police Department is committed to crime fighting and has made successful efforts to reduce gun violence. Yet anyone living in, say, Washington Park or Princeton Park has a right to be fearful and angry. In a culture of increasingly legalized armed hostility, we are all less safe, says John Avlon, author of the book "Chicago: The City That Saved My Life"

Claim: Says U.S. Senate candidate Tammy Baldwin proposed a $3.9 trillion tax increase -- a tax increase so extreme that even Nancy Pelosi voted against it.
Evidence Summary: Warren's wealth tax proposal reflects the Democratic Party's leftward drift on economic policy and tax issues. Democratic politicians have traditionally shied away from proposing how they would raise revenue, for fear of being branded "tax and spend" liberals. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., recently announced that Democrats should increase the top personal income tax rates as high as 70 percent. That would be the highest income tax rate in the developed world, higher than all of our major trading partners and competitors.

Claim: "Pls refer to Jan.1 tax changes appropriately: theyre OBAMA TAX HIKES theyll slam every Americans savings, investments job opportunity"
Evidence Summary: Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda that could become a reality after 2020. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations, at a cost of $1.9 trillion over 10 years. American employers have continued to cut pension and healthcare benefits. Jobs are less secure than ever. One in five is now held by a worker under contract, without any unemployment insurance, sick leave or retirement savings. So when money flows to the top, total demand falls behind. Trumponomics is an abject failure because its premises are flawed.

Claim: "Rep. Paul Hodes, D-N.H., voted for the pork-filled stimulus bill -- $1.9 million to study ants in Africa, $39 million for office upgrades for politicians."
Evidence Summary: Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi denounced what she called a "let them eat cake" attitude from the commerce secretary. House Oversight Committee member Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi, D-Ill., said he expects Democrats to look into the way the money was both raised and spent. The amount of money involved was record-breaking – with more than $107 million raised and $104 million spent, double the amounts of President Barack Obama’s first inaugural. To put it in perspective, in 2009 when Democrats controlled both Houses of Congress and the White House, they passed a $787 billion stimulus bill and a $410 billion Omnibus Appropriations bill.

Claim: "Without ethanol, gas prices would be at least 15% higher. With gas at four bucks, that means youre saving 12 bucks on a 20 gallon fill up."
Evidence Summary: Ethanol makers slashed production rates last year due in part to negative profit margins. Cargill Inc., the largest privately-held U.S. company, cited "historically low ethanol prices" as one of the reasons one of its segments posted lower quarterly earnings from a year ago. The cuts in output pushed up prices of DDGs and prompted switching to soymeal, company spokesman Jim Stark said. Still, more reductions in ethanol output were necessary as supplies continued to outpace demand.

Claim: "Says Paul Workman voted in the Democrat primary, supporting Democrats with his vote."
Evidence Summary: Mr. O’Rourke had not endorsed Ms. Jones, but he had elevated her Republican opponent. Central to the disputed race are allegations of unusual voting activity involving absentee ballots. North Carolina Democratic Party Chairman Wayne Goodwin said, "We are pleased that Harris’ frivolous request has been denied" But North Carolina Republican Party Chairman Robin Hayes said "nothing about today’s court hearing changes the fact that Congressman-Elect Dr. Mark Harris won the election. He received more legal votes"

Claim: "In April, Sen. McCain came out against helping women earn equal pay for equal work."
Evidence Summary: Fox News host Tucker Carlson lamented about what his show’s chyron described as “men in decline.” During one segment, he claimed there was “more drug and alcohol abuse” and “higher incarceration rates” in areas where women earn more money than their male counterparts. He cited studies that claimed women “generally don’t want to marry” men who earn less than them. He went on to say that gender pay gaps “could be a bad thing” if they exist because women aren’Tucker Carlson lost sponsors after he said immigrants make America “dirtier”

Claim: "Says Fort Hood near Killeen, Texas, is the largest military installation in the free world."
Evidence Summary: The monument lies within the White Sands Missile Range, America's biggest military installation where the first atomic bomb was detonated. The Department of Defense and the Park Service had competing interests but agreed to creating a national park with a series of proposed land swaps. America now has 60 national parks and "We are in big trouble," said Oliver. Some nutrition aid programs across the country are bracing for what could be a sudden increase in clients seeking help due to the partial government shutdown. Some say they are well stocked, while others are concerned about keeping their shelves stocked if the shutdown drags on.

Claim: "As attorney general, I have prosecuted judges, district attorneys and other public officials across Texas who violated that (public) trust, who have been corrupted."
Evidence Summary: As San Francisco's district attorney from 2004 to 2011, Ms. Harris fought tooth and nail to uphold wrongful convictions. She was criticized in 2010 for withholding information about a police laboratory technician who had been accused of “intentionally sabotaging’ her work and stealing drugs from the lab. She also was criticized for failing to embrace criminal justice reforms as a district attorney and then the state’s attorney general. She said Monday: “There is a lot about what I did as a prosecutor that I’m proud of.”

Claim: "Because of Democratic tax hikes, New Jersey ended a decade with fewer private sector jobs for the first time in recorded history."
Evidence Summary: Despite the circus in Washington, there's still a case that a lot is going right in America. But 2019 is shaping up to be a much rougher ride. Unemployment in the U.S. is at its lowest level since 1969. Consumer confidence is near its highest level since 2000, and crime in the nation’s largest cities is at Its lowest levels since 1990. The solutions cannot be limited to new revenue raised by expanded gambling and legalizing recreational marijuana. Employers want deeper workers’ compensation reform and property tax relief.

Claim: "In Rhode Island, a recent study showed that among a group of people who had been homeless for a year or more, Medicaid costs averaged about $60,000 per person."
Evidence Summary: New York spends an average of $25,000 on homeless people age 55 to 59, a figure that rises to more than $28,000 in people aged 70 and up. Philadelphia's homeless shelters also are struggling with an influx of older homeless people who have complex medical problems the shelters are not designed and staffed to handle. The report projected that the number of homeless people 65 and up will grow from 570 in 2017 to 1,560 in Boston by 2030. The national population of people 65 or older experiencing homelessness is estimated to grow from 40,000 to 106,000 by 2030, according to the report.

Claim: "Legally, it doesnt make any difference which state district you live in when running for Congress."
Evidence Summary: "Nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been a front-runner," he says. "I'm going to go speak to them in this campaign" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing when you look at who is representing us" "Believe it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about"

Claim: "Americans bought into climate change in 2004-06, but then most began wandering away from this issue."
Evidence Summary: The presence of climate change in public debate – and in Americans' consciousness – has both grown and faded over the years. A look back at Leiserowitz's data from the last decade shows that Americans' concern about the issue has only recently matched or surpassed public opinion in 2008. The survey says that 48 percent of Americans feel hopeful about global warming, while 51 percent feel helpless. The disconnect may be widest on climate change, in which the gap between Republican voters and their elected leaders continues to grow.

Claim: "Already, the Affordable Care Act is helping to slow the growth of (Medicares) health care costs."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That's 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. There’s still a health care worker shortage. The health care industry heavily markets its own importance and pushes treating illness over preventing it with lifestyle modification. It's a myth that medicine has drastically increased the human lifespan and will continue to do so.

Claim: "The health care bills will be mandated spending. You cant cut it, regardless of the budget circumstances."
Evidence Summary: Labour knows that better than the Tories but is still too squeamish about saying it aloud. It is encouraging that a Tory prime minister now concedes the correlation between quality of healthcare and money spent on it. But cuts are not the only challenge. An ageing and overweight population generates galloping demand for increasingly expensive treatments. There are difficult debates being postponed about the kind of treatments a taxpayer-funded service should provide on demand. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began.

Claim: "If the U.S. stops adding to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, it ""will lessen worldwide demand for oil"" and reduce prices."
Evidence Summary: Saudi Arabia says it will be the last man standing when the world finally weans itself off oil. Oil would account for a smaller share of world energy consumption in future, but in absolute terms demand will continue to rise. Oil prices have gained some support from supply cuts by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) U.S. crude oil production stayed at a record 11.7 million bpd in the last week of 2018, according to weekly data by the Energy Information Administration (EIA)

Claim: "Says 600,000 to 700,000 government workers have been laid off in the last year and a half"
Evidence Summary: 10,454 initial claims by federal workers for the week that ended Jan. 5, doubling the previous week’s figure. The Treasury department furloughed roughly 72,400 workers. That is nearly three times the number of people who work at Facebook. More than a million federal contract workers are idle or working fewer hours because of the shutdown, an advocacy group estimates. Many can’t afford to be without steady pay and may be forced to look for other jobs, workers say.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama added $6.5 trillion to the national debt in his first term, more than the $6.3 trillion added by the previous 43 presidents combined."
Evidence Summary: Federal spending outpaced revenue by $317 billion over the first three months of the fiscal year, the budget office reported. The widening deficit comes despite a booming economy and a low unemployment rate. The Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026, three years earlier than the projections in its previous report.Remember all the talk about the $20 trillion national debt that Trump inherited and how it would ruin us? It’s now $22 trillion and projected to soar to $33 trillion by fiscal year 2028.

Claim: "I cast the deciding vote extending Medicaid health care coverage to 50,000 of our fellow citizens,"
Evidence Summary: Andy Slavitt: The midterms were a call to action on health care. He says Democrats and Republicans have deep disagreements, but progress is possible and they should try. Slavitt says we can expect to see more of this kind of activism now that Democrats are in control of both houses of Congress. The new governor of California, Gavin Newsom, has proposed further action onhealth care, he says. It would include a New Jersey-style state-level mandate and expanded subsidies for the middle class.

Claim: "McCain ""voted to cut education funding, against accountability standards. He even proposed abolishing the Department of Education."""
Evidence Summary: It matters what senators do and what they demand, much more so than what they tweet. Public education is central to the county’s continued prosperity. “I’m just conservative in my values and views and a lot of the things Mr Trump believes, I agree with,” said Miami Independent School District principal Mark Driscoll. ‘I believe investing in our educational system with more funding is of national interest,’ said Colleen Campbell, associate director for postsecondary education with Center for American Progress.

Claim: "Says that as president, Barack Obama has not gone to the Texas-Mexico border"
Evidence Summary: CNN’s chief White House correspondent – who seemingly uploaded the video from a local Burger King – is in Texas awaiting Trump's border visit. He captioned the video, “I found some steel slats down on the border. But I don’t see anything resembling a national emergency situation.. at least not in the McAllen TX area of the border where Trump will be today.” White House officials have falsely claimed that Customs and Border Patrol agents caught thousands of known or suspected terrorists at the U.S.-Mexico border.

Claim: "Today, the deficit is below the average deficits over the past 40 years."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The deficit jumped by 17 percent in 2018, after the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul passed in 2017. While managing a yawning deficit may be a priority for presumed incoming House speaker Nancy Pelosi, it angers progressives who oppose cutting some entitlement spending in order to increase funding for other programs.“We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.”

Claim: "Next year, you will be mandated by federal law to get rid of your existing light bulbs."
Evidence Summary: The governor’s statement aimed to allay fears — and assure Californians that they would not suffer ill effects. Meanwhile in Albany, the new Democratic majorities in both houses of the New York Legislature are preparing to push the Climate and Community Protection Act. The bill would mandate 100 percent renewable energy across the state by 2050. It has repeatedly passed in the state Assembly since it was first introduced in 2016, but the previous Republican majority in the State Senate refused to hold a vote on it. It would be the first to lay the groundwork for phasing out the plants altogether.

Claim: "New financial regulation ""actually guarantees future bailouts of Wall Street banks."""
Evidence Summary: Maxine Waters, a Democrat, will become the next chair of the House Financial Services Committee. Waters has already hinted she is interested in ramping up the pressure on banks that have been accused of widespread abuses. The shift in political power could potentially stall President Trump’s deregulatory agenda, but real regulatory change takes time and still rests in the hands of the agencies. The government should reinforce the Dodd-Frank rules that constrain financial institutions from padding profits via risky trading, as the Trump administration proposes.

Claim: "Given the results of the primary, the vote of one New Hampshire superdelegate is equal to the votes of about 10,000 grassroots activists."
Evidence Summary: In the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent) That’s compared with 15 percent for Beto O’Rourke, 14 percent for Kamala Harris, 14% for Joe Biden and 11% for Bernie Sanders. Sanders' standing is especially interesting considering the straw poll has been a good indicator of grassroots enthusiasm in the past. The first Daily Kos straw poll of the 2008 cycle had John Edwards leading, but with Barack Obama the only other candidate in the double-digits.

Claim: "Driving with a dog in your lap is dangerous, in part, because it could fly forward in a crash. An 80-pound dog at only 30 mph packs a 2,400-pound punch."
Evidence Summary: A video shows an electric scooter dragging what appears to be a motionless dog on the ground behind. TSA officials recently decided floppy-eared dogs, like Labrador retrievers, have a more friendly and calming effect on passengers, particularly children. The more useful lesson to be drawn from this week’s events is that roads remain dangerous places, where a momentary lapse of attention or error of judgment can have terrible consequences. The evidence does not support the idea that older drivers are in general more dangerous than other drivers.

Claim: Weve seen priests beheaded by the Islamic rebels on the other side. Weve also seen an Islamic rebel eating the heart of a soldier.
Evidence Summary: Kasprik and his Kurdish comrades formed a bond, drawn close by the atrocities they witnessed together. He said he’ll never forget the day he entered the Iraqi town of Sinjar, home to the ancient Yazidi religious sect. Thousands of Yazidis were massacred, while thousands more women and girls were sold off as sex slaves. Now he worries about his friends and what would happen if a U.S. withdrawal allowed a depleted Islamic State to regain strength and take back territory.

Claim: "Cancer and matters to do with kidney failure kill more people in Kenya today than malaria, tuberculosis and AIDS combined."
Evidence Summary: Malaria cases are rising, after years of steady declines. Tuberculosis kills more people than any other infectious disease. Drug-resistant cases form one-third of all global deaths due to antimicrobial resistance. Cervical cancer deaths are twice as high for women in poor counties now, compared with women in affluent counties. And lung and liver cancer death rates are 40 percent higher for men in poor countries, says Dr. Darrell Gray, deputy director of Ohio State University’s Center for Cancer Health Equity.

Claim: "As President George W. Bushs trade representative, Portman failed to address Chinas currency manipulation, which was inflated to as much as 40 percent in 2006."
Evidence Summary: China will step up fiscal spending this year to support its economy, focusing on further cuts in taxes and fees for small firms. The country said its exports fell by 3.8 percent from a year earlier, its largest drop in two years. It also posted its first full-year trade deficit since 2015. Analysts had been expecting a 5% rise in China's imports from the rest of the world. Instead, they got a 7.6% fall. The difference between the amount China sells and the amount it buys - the trade surplus that so excites the US president's wrath - grew bigger.

Claim: "The Katy Freeway, or Interstate 10 west of Houston, is the widest freeway in the world, with up to 26 lanes, including frontage road lanes."
Evidence Summary: All northbound lanes of Interstate 75 in Florida are open the morning after a fiery crash that killed seven people and injured at least eight others. Motorists should expect delays on Friday as only one southbound lane is open south of Gainesville. The highway patrol has scheduled a 10 a.m. news conference to discuss the investigation into the crash. Two big rigs and two passenger vehicles collided and diesel fuel spilled across the busy highway. The Paso del Norte International Bridge is an El Paso port of entry that operate 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Claim: Today gasoline hit $6 a gallon in Florida.
Evidence Summary: Wholesale gasoline fell 2.6 percent to $1.36 a gallon and heating oil lost 1.4 percent to £1.85 a gallon. The government last weekend announced a price of $3.11 per liter (0.26 gallons) for diesel — or about $11.96 per gallon. Hong Kong had the highest price for a liter of gasoline on Jan. 7: $2.04 ($7.85 per gallon). Authorities first cut off internet access on Tuesday, before briefly restoring some services.

Claim: "The health care bill ""dumps 15 to 18 million low-income Americans into a Medicaid program that none of us want to be a part of because 50 percent of doctors won't see new patients."""
Evidence Summary: Clinics struggle to keep patients informed about possible changes to Medicaid. Doctors don't want to scare them into dropping health benefits or avoiding medical care. Some state attorneys general say they would challenge any such policy in the courts. A Texas judge has agreed to stay his own ruling pending appeal, a reprieve that will keep the law intact for now.. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn't otherwise qualify.

Claim: "In Massachusetts under Mitt Romney, unemployment went down, household incomes went up, and the state saw its credit rating upgraded."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote in the Washington Post that President Donald Trump has failed to unite a nation "so divided, resentful and angry" Romney has a history of flip-flopping on a wide variety of issues, and yet no one in political media is saying he needs to be quiet. The former Massachusetts governor has been prominent in national life for a quarter-century, and rarely during that time have people who know Romney raised their voices to say that the reality of his life is different than his Boy Scout image.

Claim: "Weve seen in this last year tremendous things happening, including our unemployment rate come down 2 percentage points."
Evidence Summary: Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon, saying the "tremendous" jobs number was partly due to companies such as auto manufacturers repatriating to the U.S.

Claim: Large phone companies and their trade association have hired 35 registered lobbyists to influence and pass SB 271 (deregulation legislation).
Evidence Summary: Before the U.S. government closed its doors in December, it heard an earful from consumers and critics who felt regulators hadn't done enough to stem the robocall scourge. One report from Transaction Network Services, a Reston, Virginia-based company that helps carriers connect their calls, found in October that one-third of all calls are considered to be "high risk" The FCC has handed down a series of multimillion dollar fines targeting the worst offenders while pressuring telecom giants including AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon.

Claim: "Hes been in office nearly four years now, but 40% of Wisconsinites dont know who (U.S. Sen.) Ron Johnson is."
Evidence Summary: Walker, suffering defeat for the first time since a 1990 run for state Assembly, plans to hit the road as a speaker advocating for conservative issues. Walker also won't rule out a future run for U.S. Senate or even governor again in 2022. "Governor Walker devolved power away from Madison and public sector unions, giving local governments the ability to balance their budgets," Sen. Ron Johnson said in an email. "He leaves office with the tax burden at a 50-year low and unemployment near record lows," Johnson said.

Claim: "Our jobless rate, our unemployment rate, is the lowest of all of the big cities in New Jersey."
Evidence Summary: An average of 220,000 jobs were added each month last year, the best performance since 2015. The overall unemployment rate is below 4 percent, at a record low for Hispanics and near a recordLow for African-Americans. Just about anyone who wants to work can find a job. Some wags are waiting for the economy to slow down, as if recession is inevitably around the corner. The solutions cannot be limited to new revenue raised by expanded gambling and legalizing recreational marijuana. Employers want deeper workers’ compensation reform and property tax relief.

Claim: Says there are $500 billion in Medicare cuts required to pay for this flawed [health care law].
Evidence Summary: The government had acknowledged that it did not know the precise amount of the difference between what hospitals were paying for the drugs and what Medicare was reimbursing them. The program, created under Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act, is commonly known as the 340B program. Mr. Azar “may either collect the data necessary to set payment rates based on acquisition costs, or he may raise his disagreement with Congress,” said Judge Contreras, who was appointed by President Barack Obama.

Claim: "Refinanced $232.6 million in bonds, resulting in reduced debt service for the City."
Evidence Summary: North Chicago School District 187 is on track to refinance its debt, which could lead to $150,000 to $200,000 in savings each year moving forward. The new debt would refinance the remainder of the $43 million in bonds taken out in 2010 at a lower interest rate. Like those 2010 bonds, this new debt earmarks specific revenue streams instead of guaranteeing the loans through property taxes. North Chicago District 187 used the military impact aid it receives from the federal government to pay off the 2010 bonds and plans on using it for the refinanced debt.

Claim: "Between 1990 and 2013, the maternal mortality rate for women in the U.S. has increased by 136%."
Evidence Summary: The death rate for babies in Manchester has increased by nearly 40% since the beginning of the decade. 99 new moms in the state died by suicide over a 10-year period. Of those 99 suicides, 98 were preventable. "Women are blaming themselves as individuals for something that is a deeply structural and societal problem," says one expert. The March for Life will take place on Saturday, January 18, in Washington, D.C., and in other cities across the U.S.

Claim: "Since I took office, weve created 76,800 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise.

Claim: "We have 33,000 people a year who die from guns."
Evidence Summary: Nearly 40,000 Americans were killed with firearms in 2017, the majority of them gun suicides. Studies from the U.S. and around the world show increases in firearm ownership and carrying are positively correlated with increases in homicide and suicide. In Brazil, a 1 percent rise in firearm availability increases the homicide rate by 2 percent. There is virtually no evidence to support the idea that expanding access to firearms increases individual safety and security, says Yvonne Smith, Evanston, Illinois. "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets," writes Nina Vinik.

Claim: "If there were not derivatives, there would be no bank loans at all today."
Evidence Summary: Bank of England, Australia’s central bank, the International Monetary Fund and members of the US Federal Reserve have raised red flags over so-called leveraged loans. The key question now is whether a bubble in a different corner of the debt market could trigger a market panic. “A quote wrongly attributed to Mark Twain fits here: history rarely repeats, but it does rhyme,” said Rasheed Saleuddin, a research associate at the University of Cambridge’’.

Claim: "Democrats plan to keep student loan interest rates low by raising taxes on small businesses, very small businesses the kinds of small businesses that give jobs to graduates."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy. Julian Zelizer: The wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda, he says. Zelizer says the question is whether the forces that propelled Democrats into the majority in the House are powerful and persistent enough to force a shift from the rightward direction.

Claim: "Even members of the NRA, when they were polled recently, were under the impression that everyone has a criminal background check."
Evidence Summary: The National Rifle Association, a powerful gun rights advocacy group, opposes the Thompson-King legislation. The NRA counters that universal background checks would not have prevented any of the mass shooting events in recent years. The 2018 midterm elections gave Democrats control of the House for the first time since 2010. But Republicans still control the Senate and White House, and it seems unlikely that Senate Republicans or President Donald Trump, who claims to be a staunch pro-gun ally, would deliver a victory to Democrats. But gun safety advocates say the House vote still matters.

Claim: "A Congressional Budget Office report says President Barack Obamas executive order to raise the minimum wage for new federal contract workers will cost the economy 500,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The shutdown reduces economic growth by 0.13 percent every week, the White House says. Federal contractors, losing an estimated $200 million per day, are furloughing workers. Delta’s CEO calculates that the shutdown has cost it $25 million. The shutdown and China trade war could be enough to tip the U.S. economy into a contraction this year, Deutsche Bank Chief International Economist Torsten Slok said. The irrational Republican hatred of governance has given us the most dangerous and incompetent president in American history.

Claim: "The federal government is sending refugees to states with governors who are Republicans, not to the Democrats."
Evidence Summary: The president and the nation need to stop throwing volleys at each other over the wall. The president has misrepresented the people seeking admission to our country as part of his strategy of creating demons, which he says only he can protect the country against. The numbers of people from around the world who have good cause to seek protection here are far beyond what the country can absorb. Some reasonable method of deciding who can enter and what to do with those who cannot must be implemented, Jim Dudas says.

Claim: "The Democrats are responsible for the swift, mindless drawdown of a military that was generations in the making."
Evidence Summary: Pence: "We will never allow the remnants of ISIS to reestablish their evil and murderous caliphate – not now, not ever" Democrats, while expressing their grief over the loss of American lives, ripped Trump for his lack of strategy in the region. "I think this tragic occurrence on the battlefield reflects how the United States has no strategy no plan and no real path forward," Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-CT, said. Democrats in particular find themselves in an awkward spot, historically skeptical but inclined to automatically oppose any Trump policy.

Claim: "Under a public health care option, 120 million Americans will lose what they now get from private companies and be forced onto the government-run rolls as businesses decide it is more cost-effective for them to drop coverage."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. A majority (56%) supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS], called Medicare-for-all. Large majorities on both sides supported “buy-ins” to existing government- run health plans. Two-thirds of Republicans and wide margins of Democrats and independents supported the proposals, the poll found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act.

Claim: "A cashier earning $20,000 per year pays the same (Virginia) income tax rate as a hedge fund manager earning $20 million per year."
Evidence Summary: In 1980, a fifth-grader whose allowance was less than $44 a week would have owed no tax at all on the 10-spot grammy paid for doing chores. The spunky, defiant Ocasio-Cortez, widely known as “AOC,” her initials and her Twitter handle, explained it well on “60 Minutes’ “Your tax rate, let's say from zero to $75,000, may be 10 percent or 15 percent. But once you get to the tippy-top — on your 10 millionth dollar — sometimes you see tax rates as high as 60 or 70 percent.”

Claim: "With a bill bringing $100 million in property tax relief, the typical Wisconsin homeowner will save approximately $680 over four years."
Evidence Summary: The district has applied for $2 million through the program in fiscal year 2019. “The idea is that those districts with high tax rates and low equalized assessed valuations that are also far from adequacy as defined by the ‘evidence-based’ model could begin to shift more of the funding to the state versus local taxpayers,” the district says. The powerful Tavern League of Wisconsin was officially neutral on the bill, but state agencies estimated it would cost more than $5 million to hire enough prosecutors.

Claim: "Amendment 2 will put almost 2,000 pot shops in Florida ... more pot shops than Walmart and Walgreens combined."
Evidence Summary: For every dollar in revenue generated, marijuana legalization may cost taxpayers $10 in government spending and programs. For Democrats, supporting marijuana legalization is a way to mobilize young and minority voters. Marijuana will become a booming industry that will endear many cannabis workers, investors and users of the drug to the Democratic Party and its candidates. But banning marijuana drives sales into the black market, where criminals do the selling. And criminals are more likely to settle their disagreements with guns. In addition, states stand to collect billions of dollars in tax revenue from legalized marijuana sales.

Claim: "In the Republican presidential debate in New Hampshire, none of the candidates mentioned the middle class or education."
Evidence Summary: Inequality is a more compelling issue among college graduates than non-graduates at 27 versus 17 percent. Those who’d rather have a candidate closer to them on the issues are more apt to prioritize health care at 39 versus 28 percent. The electorate doesn’t need to hear Horatio Alger stories of how candidates worked their way up from humble origins, with the implied moral that anyone can make it in America with enough hard work. The average single-income family must forfeit decent public schools and preschools, health insurance, and college degrees.

Claim: The health care reform bill -- on Page 16 -- outlaws private insurance.
Evidence Summary: The administration is also proposing to require insurers that cover abortion to offer a "mirror" plan that does not. The agency said the reason for the change is to more accurately calculate premium subsidies under the law. In his first year in office, Mr. Trump tried unsuccessfully to repeal the health law and then rescinded a major insurer subsidy, triggering a wave of premium increases. Also tied up in the federal courts is a move to let employers with moral objections opt out of an Affordable Care Act requirement that insurance plans cover birth control.

Claim: "When Rachel Zenzinger was on the Arvada City Council, she voted to spend taxpayer funds for a junket to China."
Evidence Summary: An article on Page 1 about Jada Yuan’s experiences traveling the world for The New York Times misstates the surname of a woman who was murdered in Washington last year. An article on Wednesday about a court filing indicating that Paulafort shared polling data with a contact tied to Russian intelligence misidentified the people to whom Mr.afort wanted the data to be sent. A city commissioner from Florida is under fire and facing calls for her resignation for writing online that newly elected Michigan Rep. Rashida Tlaib was "a danger" who might decide to "blow up Capitol Hill"

Claim: Hydrogen sulfide . . . [was] used in the genocide of Jews in Germany.
Evidence Summary: We have been through fighting. This combination of gas and Jewish state certainly hits a chord and touches a nerve. A German-manufactured gas aimed at Jews in the Jewish state is something which touches a very deep emotion in all of us. Nearly two out of three Jews living in Europe at the time were killed by death squads or in concentration camps, according to the U.S. study. The Holocaust was the state-sponsored mass murder of 12 million people — 6 million of them Jews — by Nazi Germany.

Claim: "Says U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wisconsin, was elected in a very low turnout race."
Evidence Summary: Regardless of what Walker does next, he leaves the governor's office having fundamentally altered the state. "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. Walker plans to hit the road as a speaker advocating for conservative issues, positioning himself as Trump's biggest booster in Wisconsin. Walker also won't rule out a future run for U.S. Senate or even governor again in 2022, although he acknowledged that Republicans would probably want a "new face"

Claim: "Theres not a single, solitary example that signing the bill to end Glass-Steagall had anything to do with the financial crash."
Evidence Summary: In the TV show The West Wing, President Jed Bartlet is a Nobel Prize-winning economist. In the show, The Newsroom, economics professor Dr. Sloan Sabbith gives a thumbnail history of Glass-Steagall and argues that its repeal played a pivotal role in the financial crisis. Today Cardiff and Stacey discuss these shows and the way they deal with these economic concepts. They look at the work of screenwriter Aaron Sorkin, who is not the kind to shrink away from grasping the nettle of economic explanation.

Claim: "The stimulus bill ""didnt create one new job."""
Evidence Summary: The shutdown, the longest on record, is prompting tens of thousands of federal employees to seek jobless benefits. The Labor Department reported 10,454 initial claims by federal workers for the week that ended Jan. 5, doubling the previous week’s figure. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president's leadership.

Claim: "Big Oil gave Scott Brown $454,260."
Evidence Summary: Obama’s plan is a “classic example of why you don’t want the federal government getting involved in industry,” Edwards told Fox News. O’Rourke generated controversy last month over fossil fuel donations he received. He won early endorsements from environmental groups when he challenged Cruz, a climate change denier and fossil fuel ideologue. He accepted $430,000 from individuals working in the oil and gas industry, 75 percent of which came in the form of donations over $200.

Claim: "Says the stimulus bill sent tax credits overseas, such as $1.2 billion to a solar company thats building a plant in Mexico."
Evidence Summary: The main goal of the stimulus was to save the economy from a depression in the short term, which is why its push to move the economy towards clean energy was largely overlooked. Democrats of all political stripes are now studying the green stimulus as a potential inspiration for a Green New Deal, as well as a cautionary tale. The stimulus that Obama worked out with a Democratic-controlled Congress would end up increasing U.S. clean energy spending more than twenty-fold. Now establishment Democrats like Castor and insurgent Democrats aligned with Ocasio-Cortez are looking at it as a possible playbook for an even more ambitious package.

Claim: "We can prevent terror suspects from boarding an airplane, but the FBI doesn't have the power to block them from buying dynamite or an AK-47."
Evidence Summary: The FBI is the leading “counterintelligence” agency on U.S. soil. Of vital importance, that work often occurs outside the public eye, and is less well understood by citizens. "This is not about politics or partisanship. As I have said, special agents are working and are committed to protecting our country, but we need funding to do our work," says FBI Director James Comey. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he adds.

Claim: Wisconsin Republicans repealed a statewide fair pay law that made sure women are treated fairly on the job.
Evidence Summary: Since the Ledbetter law, states and cities around the nation have passed their own equal pay bills. Four of the 20 new governors who took office this month, three Democrats and one Republican, signed nondiscrimination orders that include sexual orientation and gender identity. The strike succeeded in its aim of making the council take these claims seriously. It was also a spectacular event that put equal pay for low-paid women on the national agenda.“We are not in the 17th century! Women deserve to be treated the same as men.”

Claim: "Under a proposed Georgia law, women who miscarry could become felons."
Evidence Summary: New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms contended the act would repeal legal protections for a fetus after 20 weeks. It also said that by repealing abortions from the criminal code, it would limit prosecutors from applying criminal charges in the cases of so-called forced abortions. The bill does permit an abortion in cases of incest, rape, human trafficking, with "a copy of a restraining order, police report, medical record, or other court order or documentation" The bill also strikes "fetus" from current abortion-related laws replacing it with "unborn human being"

Claim: "Since 2000, when he entered politics, Jon Husted has been on the ballot six times for three different political offices."
Evidence Summary: Republican Secretary of State Jon Husted said that's the total number of so-called "last chance mailings" going out from county boards of elections. Ohio's procedure for maintaining its voter rolls is considered one of the most stringent in the nation. Civil rights groups unsuccessfully challenged Ohio's regimen as a voter "purge" ahead of last year's election. The U.S. Supreme Court rejected their arguments, finding in Husted's favor. But he temporarily put the procedures on hold to avoid confusion during the November election, in which he was elected lieutenant governor.

Claim: "(Paul Ryan) has actually proposed three total, three bills that have become law in his entire career dating back to 1999."
Evidence Summary: Even supporters of Paul Ryan, happy about the $5 billion package to fund the wall and avoid the shutdown, note that he did nothing to solve this crisis in his final days as speaker. They pointed to Ryan’s final round of hagiography, punctuated by his farewell addresses at the Library of Congress just before the shutdown. "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," said Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del.

Claim: "Some of the colleges, including AM, have already guaranteed that they will not increase their tuition."
Evidence Summary: "Institutions are seeing tuition re-setting as a clear tool to use for the purpose of attracting students and retaining them," Kantrowitz says. Only a quarter of college freshman and 38 percent of all undergraduates pay the full sticker price for their education, he finds. Students are more likely to pay full price at public colleges, Ivy League schools and the most selective colleges, he found. "I look at some of the predatory, for-profit educations that just don’t care," Warren says.

Claim: "Van Jones is an avowed, self-avowed radical revolutionary communist."
Evidence Summary: "Why did I sit in classes teaching me about the merits of our history and our civilization?" he asks. He later posted a statement to Twitter, after the interview was published, saying, "I reject those labels and the evil ideology" "I am simply a Nationalist," he said, not a white nationalist or white supremacist. "We're having dinner soon, he's buying me dinner," Jones wrote on Facebook. "Alleged photo of the suspect shows communist garb,” the outlet screamed.

Claim: "(Sen. Robert) Gordon cost us money, exempting the Newark sports arena from paying property taxes and sticking us with the bill."
Evidence Summary: Some members of Illinois’ congressional delegation say they’ll donate their pay as an act of solidarity with furloughed federal workers. New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy took aim at a corporate tax incentive program he said was rigged to work for a favored few. Sterling Bay has scrapped a plan that would have paved the way for Live Nation to create an entertainment district in the Chicago area. Residents validly question why they can’t shoulder more of the cost of infrastructure improvements that will end up benefiting Lincoln Yards.

Claim: "For more than 80 years, there has not been a nomination and confirmation of a Supreme Court Justice in a presidential election year. This is simply not the time to break with decades of bipartisan practice."
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court is a political body, and appointments to the Court could mean favorable decisions for the political party that made and confirmed the appointment. This issue was front and center in the Kavanaugh nomination fight, and was reawakened when Chief Justice Roberts rebuked President Trump’s remark about “Obama judges.” Roberts was clearly trying to fight the notion that the courts are politicized, but his comment failed to acknowledge that there are in fact significant differences in judicial philosophy that account for most of the differences among judges.

Claim: "McCain used to buck his party on immigration by fighting for comprehensive reform. . . . But when he was running for his party's nomination, he . . . said that he wouldn't even support his own legislation if it came up for a vote."
Evidence Summary: Julian Zelizer: It matters what senators do and what they demand, much more so than what they tweet. He says Sen. McCain understood how to wield the immense power of the Senate’s advise-and-consent role better than any other. Zelizer says President Trump should have learned this lesson when – after bashing immigrants in a nation of immigrants – the Republican Party lost control of the House in the November midterm elections. The Senate Republican leader must consider what type of nation we want to be, he says.

Claim: "President Obama and Democrats spending addiction has driven our national debt to historic proportions, maxed out our national credit card and has now led to the Democrat Downgrade of our countrys AAA credit rating."
Evidence Summary: David Rothkopf: If the U.S. is nothing but an economy, the state of the union is good. But the nation faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment, he writes. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, he says. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion, and is expected to balloon above $ 1 trillion next year, he adds.

Claim: "Republicans Chuck Grassley, John Boehner and John Mica flip-flopped on providing end-of-life counseling for the elderly."
Evidence Summary: Andy Slavitt: With Democrats in control of the House and drug costs registering as a top issue with the public, now is the time to vote on allowing Medicare to negotiate prescription drug prices. He says Democrats and Republicans should pick out a few areas of agreement to work on together, shielded from partisan politics. Americans want to see legislation passed by both parties so it can stand the test of time, he says. Slavitt is a former health care industry executive who ran the Affordable Care Act and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

Claim: The best evidence is that you lose -- if you use marijuana as a teenager regularly -- eight IQ points.
Evidence Summary: Low levels of marijuana use — as few as one or two times — may change the teen brain, according to a new study. The study looked at the brains of 46 14-year-old girls and boys from Ireland, England, France and Germany. It found that teenagers who reported using recreational marijuana just once or twice displayed increased volume on MRI images in numerous brain regions involved in emotion-related processing, learning and forming memories. The results of the study were published Monday in the Journal of Neuroscience.

Claim: "In Florida, the number of voters who now register as other has grown by a million in the last 10 years. Compare that with the Democrats, who only grew by 300,000 and the Republicans who grew by just 200,000."
Evidence Summary: Political scientists say it is unclear whether the newly franchised voters will sway Florida red or blue. There is no public record of how people who were removed from the rolls have historically voted. Democrats remain just as shellshocked as they were after Election Day, when it became clear that Bill Nelson, the state’s longtime senator, and Andrew Gillum, the electrifying young mayor of Tallahassee, had lost by exceedingly close margins. As of Tuesday, there was still only one Democrat in statewide office.

Claim: "Says Mark Zandi, who wrote a report criticizing Donald Trumps economic proposals, is one of Sen. John McCains former economic advisers."
Evidence Summary: The late Senate Armed Services Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.) was among those expressing qualms about Shanahan's ties to Boeing. In a moment exploding with partisan misinformation, normal Americans are somehow invested in getting things right about Ocasio-Cortez. A guy who’d recently “liked” a photo posted by Trump adviser Stephen Miller tweeted, “I can’t believe I’m tweeting this.” “Who Is MacKenzie Bezos?” by NYT’s Jonah Engel Bromwich and Alexandra Alter: “Her divorce from the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos has made this novelist, and her private life, a public fascination”

Claim: Marco Rubio says Solo Ingles (English only).
Evidence Summary: López Obrador, popularly know as Amlo, has promised to govern with frugality. He has also pledged to sell off the presidential plane, traveling instead on commercial flights and a Volkswagen Jetta. At his morning press conference on Friday, Amlo said he didn't have a credit card and hasn’t had a checking account for years. "I fight for ideals, for principles.” the title to a 1.2-hectare ranch inherited from his parents in southern Chiapas state is already in the names his four sons.

Claim: "Say this biennium, liquor sales account for nearly $1 billion in the state budget."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. The departing governor inherited a $28 billion deficit and left him a $14 billion surplus. He also created an $18 billion so-called rainy day fund to help the state get through what is widely viewed as an inevitable coming recession. The mention of his predecessor’s name drew a standing ovation in his speech on Monday. But Mr. Newsoms agenda is likely to be costly, and thus likely to face obstacles.

Claim: "Oregon, once again, remains among the top five hungriest states in the nation."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump's administration has loosened health restrictions on school lunches and fought sugar taxes. The U.S. continues to ignore the severity of its obesity crisis, says one expert. But there are reasons to be optimistic about efforts to combat unhealthy food ads, he says. 'I was raised that, when you see a problem, you don't complain about it, you go and do something about it,' says Kamala Harris. 'Keeping it short and keeping the flavor big': Jamie Oliver discusses three quick meals that require five or fewer ingredients.

Claim: Says he voted for even stronger protections (in the Violence Against Women Act)than Obamas agenda will allow.
Evidence Summary: Trump said that Democrats need to be the "non-stupid party" He also said that the new crop of lawmakers should "stop acting like young people" He was apparently referring to a 2005 video that came to light ahead of the 2016 presidential election. Ocasio-Cortez tweeted a vow to support Tlaib, who was sworn in as a new member of the 116th Congress on Thursday. She was videotaped that night vowing to impeach the president -- shortly after she penned an op-ed outlining the case for impeachment.

Claim: "The cost of college education has gone up 1,200 percent since 1978."
Evidence Summary: The federal government, wittingly or not, has helped make universities' tuition hikes possible by subsidizing student debt. More access to college funding from the government has emboldened colleges to hike up prices, since they know borrowers can rely on the government to meet costs. Students have borrowed more in response — but paying off higher balances takes longer. Only 44 percent of borrowers have repaid at least one dollar of principal within three years of beginning their payments. The massive debt burden — combined with a difficult job market for college grads — would increase the risks of default.

Claim: "The Milwaukee County Board approved a reform package by a 15-3 vote, meaning Board Supervisors salaries will be cut by 20 percent and the Boards budget will be cut by 50 percent."
Evidence Summary: The school board is also expected to vote on a new school board member to replace Julie Simpson, who resigned after winning election to the Lake County Board in November. The district has been having to make cuts to balance its budget. Officials expect to face a fourth year of budget reductions in order to balance the 2019-20 budget.Trustees Michael Jenny, Deborah Karton, Karim Khoja and Kerry Cummings — who was appointed earlier in the meeting to fill a vacant seat following the appointment of former Trustee Scott Britton to the Cook County Board of Commissioners — all made statements in support of opting into Cook County ordinances.

Claim: "Bill Young uses his campaign money for, among other things, a luxury car."
Evidence Summary: In Hazel Crest, the political committee for Mayor Vernard Alsberry reported a balance of $18,538 after taking in $19,335 and spending $21,473 during the quarter. "Ethically, it’s always a question in terms of are you spending money to advance the objectives of the committee or are you supplementing a lifestyle?” Redfield said. “If there is lavish spending, sometimes if it gets noted you can get pushback from voters”

Claim: We have lower family incomes in Illinois today than we had 17 years ago in Illinois ...because of the control of (House) Speaker (Michael) Madigan and his Democrats.
Evidence Summary: Illinois House Speaker Mike Madigan has been speaker for all but two years since 1983. House rules give Madigan the power to control who votes in committees and dole out committee chair positions. The Illinois Policy Institute found that no other state grants as much power to its House speaker as our state grants to him. The future of Illinois depends on the passage of a fair income tax, which will bring us into the 21st century like most of our midwestern neighbors, and like the vast majority of the U.S.

Claim: "Before taking executive action on immigration, President Obama stated 22 times that he does not have the authority to change immigration laws on his own."
Evidence Summary: In 2005, then-President Obama said: "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected, undocumented, unchecked" He was referring to illegal immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally. Now, President Trump is considering declaring a national emergency to pay for a border wall. "I think it would be a profound mistake for the president to overturn American immigration law with the stroke of a pen," Obama said in 2005. "That's what the American people want," he added.

Claim: "After actions by Gov. Scott Walker and Republicans, Wisconsin is dead broke."
Evidence Summary: Walker, suffering defeat for the first time since a 1990 run for state Assembly, plans to hit the road as a speaker advocating for conservative issues. Walker also won't rule out a future run for U.S. Senate or even governor again in 2022. "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "In order to pass the CRCT in Georgia, you simply have to get half of the answers correct."
Evidence Summary: In 2016, to gain a C in the “easier”, pre-reform GCSE maths, you needed to get 34% of your answers right. Georgia State’s data found a student's grade in his or her first math class was more predictive than either one, so the math score is now used to determine whether a student is admitted into the program. The university is constantly looking for other ways to put the data to work. After it learned that 20 percent of its incoming freshmen were dropping out the summer before they even started, it developed an artificial intelligence “chatbot”

Claim: "Human error, such as skipping a community in the Wisconsin Supreme Court race, is common in (the vote-tabulation) process."
Evidence Summary: Voting Technical Oversight Program is conducting a risk-limiting audit of the election. John Avlon: Many faced problems in the voting process before, on and after Election Day. He says the most widespread problem we saw was the most predictable one: voting machine failures. Avlon says states and Congress should fix these avoidable problems that can be solved with commonsense reforms. The work is expected to be completed by Friday, Avlon writes, and the results will be released later this month.

Claim: "At Twin River, were more than competitive with nearby casinos in slot machine payouts."
Evidence Summary: A newly formed state casino company, Spectacle Entertainment, said it would acquire two Majestic Star riverboat licenses in an undisclosed cash transaction. The transaction still has to be approved by the Indiana Gaming Commission. The new company said it hoped to move at least one license to a different site in Gary and the second to another unnamed Indiana location. Such a move would clear the way for Gary to ramp up a higher-industrial profile in Buffington Harbor, one of Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson’s goals.

Claim: "Understand, this is unemployment insurance. Its not welfare, as a lot of my Republican colleagues like to suggest it is. You pay into it when youre working. You get help when youre not."
Evidence Summary: Trump often bashes recipients of the benefits. “What the Trump Administration is saying is, come on guys, the economy’s doing good. Why are you still sitting around? People here in Washington ... what they’re calling them now are watchers,” she said.“Any of those federal employees who are furloughed, come in and we’ll get you unemployment insurance,’ he said. "And I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments"

Claim: "In reality, gas produced by fracking is worse for the climate than coal."
Evidence Summary: By 2050, the country’s newly tapped reserves are projected to spew 120 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. Nearly 90 percent of new U.S. oil and gas drilling through 2050 is expected to depend on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The Permian Basin alone would use up 10 percent of the emissions that remain in the entire world”s carbon budget to keep warming within 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit. The report casts a new light on the impact of the U.s. fracking boom and calls into question the Trump administration's stance that China remains the biggest impediment.

Claim: "Say in November 2010, voters overwhelmingly supported the idea of creating a (library) district."
Evidence Summary: The cynicism that’s jaded our view of national politics appears to have spilled into local government. Certain factions within the District 86 debate want you to believe that this local topic is infected with the same dubious intent and dysfunction we observe at the national level. “We will have a forum to present those to the board and the board is going to be able to make a final determination as to the outcome of last November's election,” said Hinsdale High School District 86 official.

Claim: "Says under President Barack Obama, the United States has created five million jobs."
Evidence Summary: Unemployment is close to levels unseen since the first moon landing. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created added under Trump. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being “the greatest jobs president that God ever created” says Julian Zelizer. The current recovery clearly began under the previous president, Barack Obama.

Claim: "With this reform, every insured American gets valuable consumer protections, and every uninsured American can become insured."
Evidence Summary: The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services. The insurance industry would be regulated to play a minor role in the system. Critics claimed these changes and others like them would lead to “higher costs and less coverage” and would “eliminate protections for people with pre-existing conditions.” The latest data shows those criticisms are unfounded. A majority of Americans obtain their health insurance from their employers (56 percent)

Claim: "Under President Barack Obamas jobs bill, you can sue if you are unemployed and dont get the job and think you werent hired because you are unemployed."
Evidence Summary: The Labor Department reported 10,454 initial claims by federal workers for the week that ended Jan. 5. Several federal employee unions have filed lawsuits against the government, claiming that forcing workers to work without pay violates labor law and the constitution's prohibition on involuntary servitude. "Extremely upset" EPA workers in Kansas City, Kansas, applied for unemployment, they hit a snag, said Sarah Watterson, an EPA worker and president of AFGE Local 907. Come Jan. 11, 420,000 workers will be eligible to join the suit.

Claim: "National debt plus unfunded liabilities adds up to $520,000 per American household."
Evidence Summary: Policymakers, employers and others must find ways to bolster the financial security of tens of millions of Americans who are living on the brink. The new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt, that this is a savage society we now live in. Four in 10 Americans struggle to pay for groceries, housing and other basic needs, concluded a 2018 study by the Urban Institute, a centrist think tank. For households, that can result in a genuine financial crisis when the median emergency expense runs $3,750.

Claim: "Rev. Wright said ""that al-Qaida and the American flag were the same flags."""
Evidence Summary: So far, there has been little indication of protests or overt denunciations of Tlaib's using Jefferson’s Koran. Jefferson wrote Virginia's Statute on Religious Freedom – and intended it to apply to Muslims, Hindus and Jews as well as Christians. A large number of slaves brought into the U.S. were Muslim, – which could also have piqued the interest of Jefferson, who was a slave owner. “I believe in secular government (and) my swearing in on the Koran is about me showing that the American people are made up of diverse backgrounds and we all have love of justice and freedom,” she said.

Claim: "The average 401(k) in America of a person whos 60 years old is under $100,000."
Evidence Summary: Since the financial crisis, older Americans have been increasingly staying in the workplace. Some see this as a positive trend, because it adds to the economy. Others rightfully view it with trepidation, because many of these elderly people just can't afford to retire. “There will be a lot of downward mobility,” says Teresa Ghilarducci, professor of economics and retirement at The New School in New York City. The higher the income, the more you pay for Medicare.

Claim: "If you are born poor in America, we rank ninth or tenth in our citizens ability to climb up through that ladder and get themselves into the middle class."
Evidence Summary: Those raised near the top of the income ladder now have a 70% chance of realising the dream. Meanwhile, those close to the bottom, more in need of elevation, have a 35% chance. Rich American men now live 15 years longer than poor American men, who endure only as long as men in Sudan and Pakistan. The new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt. If you want to put America first, you’ve got to put its families first.

Claim: "By the time Obama took office, The Bush administration had given the car companies $13 billion and the money was now gone."
Evidence Summary: In 2009, then president-elect Obama expressed “a belief that we need to look forward as opposed to looking backwards” That view was at odds with a commitment to justice, since justice is always retrospective. Obama’s governance strategy of burying the broadly accepted failures of the Bush presidency created a path for Bush's enablers in Congress to secure historic victories in the 2010 midterms. Obama administration never claimed that every high-risk investment would pay out, and a slew of investigations never uncovered anything untoward about the Solyndra deal.

Claim: "Says by reducing chronic health care costs in the State of Georgia, we can reduce the $32.8 billion lost each year due to lack of productivity and economic costs."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. Since rising costs aren't paying for improved treatments, policy makers may want to take action, says Dr. William Shrank, chief medical officer of the UPMC Health Plan. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years — and there's still a health care worker shortage. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago.

Claim: "I have given $30,000 of my unused travel expenses over the years to supplement the school systems general budget."
Evidence Summary: Holcomb is a small rural school whose funding is being squeezed. Head teacher Jolanda Simmonds said pupils would also have a say on what the fundraised money could be spent on. Valparaiso School Board President Jennifer Bognar was supportive of the proposal. “I was really pleased by some of the (things) that he said,” she said of Holcomb. ‘I want very much for them to go to a public school just like I went to public schools.’

Claim: "Sen. Clinton said ""the surge of troops in Iraq was 'working.' Now.... Sen. Clinton says the surge 'has failed' and that we should 'begin the immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops.'"""
Evidence Summary: Warren was one of the few likely Democratic candidates to publicly speak at length about the pullouts in Syria and Afghanistan following Trump’s withdrawal announcement. Warren criticized Trump for tweeting the withdrawal order and not coordinating with allies on how to pull back troops in a way that would ensure safety and stability. Senator Lindsey Graham called the decision an "Obama-like mistake" and blasted the president for the hastily announced withdrawal plan. "Anytime a president does something that people on the ground are rattled by, it usually comes back to bite us," Graham said.

Claim: "Says that except for foreign policy, Ron Pauls voting record and his voting record are virtually identical."
Evidence Summary: Rand Paul says Mitt Romney's op-ed is bad for the Republican party and bad for any kind of ability to work together in the Senate to get things done. Paul says Romney is trying to show how virtuous he is compared to Trump and predicted it would back fire on the Romney. Paul has ramped up his public praise for Trump and joined the chorus of Republican criticism for the president’s treatment in the press. Trump and Paul have played golf together, a favorite pastime of the president and a way other former antagonists have overcome bad blood.

Claim: "If the Republicans were the majority, (Rep. Barton) would have actually the gavel and the chairmanship."
Evidence Summary: McCarthy, meanwhile, was introduced by Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney, the GOP’s new conference chairwoman. Cheney is one of only 13 women in the GOP conference now, and the ocean of white men surrounding her hooted loudly when she said, “Build the wall” The House chamber takes on a schoolroom vibe when a member votes against his or her party's nominee for speaker. Idiosyncratic Michigan GOP Rep. Justin Amash received a couple of actual boos when he voted for his fellow idiosyncratic member sitting immediately next to him, Kentucky Rep. Thomas Massie.

Claim: "By the way, Im not raising tolls 50 percent....Jon Corzine did."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Cuomo has urged state lawmakers to pay for it by approving congestion pricing. Mr. Byford introduced a plan to save the subway last May. He added that fulfilling his manifesto promise had "taken a little bit longer than we thought it would, but we are there now" Campaign group Scrap Mersey Tolls said the initial off-peak reduction was "welcome" but that is offset by a 50% increase for those users of the tunnels who do not happen to live in Merseyside or Halton.

Claim: "If public employees dont pay more for benefits starting April 1, 2011, the equivalent is 1,500 state employee layoffs by June 30, 2011 and 10,000 to 12,000 state and local government employee layoffs in the next two years."
Evidence Summary: The government shutdown is a double-whammy for federal workers' incomes. Federal employees are already paid about 32 percent less than private-sector employees for doing the same work. The Internal Revenue Service is recalling about 46,000 employees furloughed by the government shutdown to handle tax returns and pay refunds. Meanwhile, at the Food and Drug Administration inspections of food facilities are resuming, again, using unpaid staff. The partial federal government shutdown has led to a temporary loss of pay for about 800,000 federal employees.

Claim: "Over the past three years, deep poverty has reached its highest level on record."
Evidence Summary: The World Inequality Report 2018 – co-authored by Piketty – showed that between 1980 and 2016 the poorest 50% of humanity only captured 12 cents in every dollar of global income growth. By contrast, the top 1% captured 27 cents of every dollar. Oxfam said that in addition to tackling inequality at home, developed nations currently failing to meet their overseas aid commitments could raise the missing billions needed to tackle extreme poverty. China’s rapid growth over the past four decades has been responsible for much of the decline in extreme poverty but World Bank data showed the rate of poverty reduction had halved since 2013.

Claim: "As the election tracker FiveThirtyEight has reported, whoever wins Pennsylvania will be our next President."
Evidence Summary: Val DiGiorgio, chairman of Pennsylvania’s GOP, said his 2020 strategy includes "bringing Trump volunteers who were active in 2016 into the party proper" He also laid out a proposal to boost the state committee's fundraising, which his internal critics have said has lagged since he took over the party in early 2017. "We will offer an alternative to the corruption and incompetence in the White House,” the governor added. “Our government will be progressive, principled, and always on the side of the people.”

Claim: "The Interior Department is in charge of salmon while theyre in fresh water, but the Commerce Department handles them when theyre in saltwater."
Evidence Summary: The federal government tightly regulates the cod and other fisheries in the Bering Sea. The National Marine Fisheries Service certifies scales that are used to weigh fish. It also trains and debriefs independent observers who ride along on boats to collect data. And the whole agency is short-staffed because of the shutdown, says Nat Herz of Alaska's iReporters. "We're involved in probably what is the greatest civics lesson of our lifetime right now," says Sen. Dan Sullivan, R-Alaska.

Claim: "The U.S.tax rate on successful small businesses is 44.6 percent, while the business tax rate in Canada is 15 percent."
Evidence Summary: Figure, in written evidence to parliamentary inquiry, is almost £40m less than Next. The figures indicate that business rates amount to less than 1% of Amazon’s sales. Next paid £100m in business rates on sales of about £4bn; M&S paid £184m. Debenhams paid considerably more than Amazon – £80m inBusiness rates on only £2.3bn of sales last year. Amazon said it paid “tens of millions of pounds more than estimates and more than is paid by many well-known high street retailers”

Claim: "Said the Washington Post argued that a failure to pass the START treaty this year would be no calamity, and that the Associated Press saidthe administration concedes the security risk is not immediate."
Evidence Summary: Moscow and Washington were at loggerheads over missile defense. Trump administration has said it plans to withdraw from the 1987 Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces treaty, on the grounds Moscow is flouting it. Russia though says it is in compliance, and that Washington is in fact in violation. The next pillar to fall could be the New Start treaty, signed by Barack Obama and Dmitri Medvedev in 2010. That treaty will expire in 2021 unless it is extended, and President Trump has called it a ‘bad deal’

Claim: "Deer baiting, planned for Block Island by DEM, is illegal in Rhode Island."
Evidence Summary: A spokesman for state Sen. John Flanagan, the Republican leader in the state Senate, did not respond to a request for comment on the bills. Councilman Dan Dernulc, R-Highland, said one of his biggest concerns, and one shared by his constituents, was that the regulation would impact people hunting on their property. "For the thousands of kids that went up to Tallahassee and worked their asses off to get these laws passed, the least they can do is try not to reverse them"

Claim: "Says Patrick Murphy embellished, according to reports, his University of Miami academic achievement."
Evidence Summary: Kamilah Campbell, 18, is calling on the Educational Testing Service (ETS), which administers the SAT, to release her test within two weeks so she can be considered by college admissions officers. Abby Kuhnell, a high school senior in Walton, Kentucky, received a letter from ACT in August 2018 invalidating scores from tests she had taken in December 2017 and March 2018. A Florida high school honors student is fighting back after she says her SAT score was held for review following a massive increase from a test this year.

Claim: "Every billion dollars we spend on highway construction results in 47,500 jobs. But the fact is the average American is sitting in traffic 38 hours a year."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The monthly jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. We want to zoom out to talk more broadly about what's been happening to the U.s. labor force. How many Americans are living paycheck to paycheck? President Trump will address the American people Tuesday night to make his case.

Claim: "On average, Americans spend less than 10 percent of their disposable income on food. Compare that to folks in Mexico, who spend 22 percent, China, 28 percent and Russia, 37 percent."
Evidence Summary: Households' average weekly spend on booze was less in 2018 - at £8 - compared with 10 years ago. Households with the lowest disposable income spent proportionally more on takeaway meals eaten at home. The richest spent just 8% of their catering services expenditure on takeaways, the lowest proportion across all income groups. The Rudd report also found that companies didn’t spend any money to advertise healthy food options of their products on Spanish-language television. “It’s just really tough when the cheapest thing to get adequate calories is through junk food,” said Rafael Perez-Escamilla, a professor at the Yale School of Public Health.

Claim: We lock up close to 2.4 million people in this country. Were locking up more people than China and Russia.
Evidence Summary: President Trump's tweet on Saturday was crammed with statistics that were either exaggerated or omitted important context. Out of the Bureau of Prisons’ total inmate population of 183,058 in the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year, 21 percent were immigrants, both legal and undocumented, according to a government report. At least 13 percent of the total population, or 23,826 inmates, were in the country unlawfully. The most common crimes committed by these immigrants were drug-related offenses (46 percent) and immigration offenses (29 percent).

Claim: "Since Oregons prescription-only law took effect, meth lab incidents have dropped by 96 percent and meth-related arrests by 32 percent."
Evidence Summary: Researchers sketched a vivid line Friday linking the dollars spent by drugmakers to a vast opioid epidemic. The study looked at county-specific federal data and found that the more opioid-related marketing dollars were spent in a county, the higher the rates of doctors who prescribed those drugs. For each three additional payments made to physicians per 100,000 people, opioid overdose deaths were up 18 percent, according to the study. The toll of methamphetamine use, also known as meth or crystal meth, is on the rise, too.

Claim: OShaughnessy even voted for her own personal stimulus package -- a taxpayer-funded pay raise for herself.
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) wants to tax the richest Americans at a rate of 70 percent on their income above $10 million. She raised $3.2 million for her first re-election campaign, ranking 41st among House candidates that year. She beat that amount in 2016, raising £3.5 million even though she had no opponent. She gave about $329,000 to local, state and national party organizations this cycle.

Claim: "When Washington liberals wanted to take away our guns, Chet said no."
Evidence Summary: In recent months, gun reform advocacy has taken on a bold new face in the medical community. The shift began in November when the NRA told doctors to “stay in their lane’ Doctors defiantly embraced the gun group’s slight, launching a campaign of activism under the banner “This is our lane.” They’ve been speaking out about the need to confront gun violence ever since. The medical profession is now being painted as a foil to the NRA, an altruistic counterweight to a gun lobby.

Claim: "Because of Obamacare, over the last two years, health care premiums have gone up -- its true -- but theyve gone up slower than any time in the last 50 years."
Evidence Summary: The roughly 1 percent increase could feed into the Democratic argument that the Trump administration is trying to "sabotage" coverage for millions. The administration said the proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. President Trump, who once predicted "Obamacare" would "implode" or "explode," took credit for calm insurance markets. He said it reflects his administration's management skills.

Claim: "Then, the Republican leader theatrically introduced new bills with stopgap budget language, declaring that we could stay until midnight and pass this compromise. Except under our constitution, a bill has to be read on 3 different days, so thats not possible."
Evidence Summary: The shutdown is set to become the longest in U.S. history. The House will vote Thursday on a Democratic plan to reopen the government. The Senate will also vote on the Democratic plan, marking a departure for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. The shutdown is now in its 33rd day, and there is no clear end in sight to the standoff over border security. The panel discussed the political fallout from Tuesday’s speeches and the showdown over borderSecurity. Back to Mail Online home.back to the page you came from.

Claim: "We have created new jobs here in Cranston -- more than 1,000."
Evidence Summary: During the first 11 months of 2018, employers added 2.27 million jobs, or an average of 206,182 a month. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion. "It really was a banner year," said Martha Gimbel, director of economic research at the Indeed Hiring Lab. “We’ve made a lot of progress,” said Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner. "Despite all the turmoil in this world, Illinoisans continue to build, innovate, create and dream"

Claim: "Says Michele Bachmann said, The Chinese built a Great Wall 5,000 years ago. You dont see any illegal Mexicans in China."
Evidence Summary: Sandmann said he "did not witness or hear any students chant 'build that wall' or anything hateful or racist at any time" The president has caught heat for his repeated suggestions that “terrorists” like Islamic State militants could sneak into the U.S. through the border with Mexico because of a lack of the extensive border wall he has promised to build. A quarter of the federal government has been shut down for close to a month over the issue as lawmakers resist his demands to appropriate funding for his border wall.

Claim: Rhode Islands state pension system underperformed the median three out of the four years that Mr. [Frank] Caprio was in office.
Evidence Summary: Pension holidays are costly short-term fixes that explain why local governments are in trouble. Future recipients of legislative pensions also are the ones responsible for fixing the bigger problem. Michigan found a middle road to pension reform – making a distinction between already-earned benefits and yet-to-be-earned future benefits. Los Angeles is among the school districts across California that are not well-positioned to manage the coming confluence of slower revenue growth, declining enrollment and rising pension contribution rates, according to a Moody's study.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton was let off the hook for her email scandal while Gen. David Petraeus had his life destroyed for doing far, far less."
Evidence Summary: House Republicans shuttering long-running probes into the FBI and Justice Department’s actions during the 2016 campaign. But they disclosed new findings on their way out that undercut the official narrative surrounding the bureau's decision not to prosecute former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The details were revealed in a letter Friday from outgoing Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., and Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy. In July 2016, Comey took the unusual step of publicly recommending against criminal charges over Clinton's use of an unsecured personal server.

Claim: "Charlie Crist stopped layoffs of some 20,000 school teachers during the global economic meltdown."
Evidence Summary: 15 federal workers met with elected members of Congress Friday to talk about their personal struggles of being without pay for so long. After the hourlong roundtable discussion, the workers then held a rally at Federal Plaza with dozens more of their colleagues to draw more public attention to their plight. “This shutdown has really turned into a travesty. Churches are being overwhelmed because they are trying to help their members. Some food pantries have a three-hour wait. There is no morale.”

Claim: "Says Russ Feingold supported a stimulus plan that allowed a company to create 3,000 jobs in China."
Evidence Summary: Foxconn Technology Group fell short of the minimum number of jobs it was required to create in 2018 to claim state-job creation tax credits. The Taiwanese supplier to Apple Inc. was eligible for up to $9.5 million in tax credits if it created 260 full-time jobs in 2018. Apple and General Motors have complained that the tariff war is hurting their businesses too. But while the reports of suffering of Chinese exporters might cheer the US negotiating team, they don’t hold all the cards.

Claim: "Says he has ""the most impressive education record"" of the Republican candidates."
Evidence Summary: Former Vice President Joe Biden struck a uniquely bipartisan and pragmatic tone as he joked about criticism he's received for getting along with Republicans. Biden appeared to be referring to a New York Times story on Wednesday that reported how Biden praised Rep. Fred Upton, R-Mich., three weeks before the November elections. The Times said the move “stunned Democrats and elated Republicans” and “underscores his potential vulnerabilities in a fight for the Democratic nomination and raises questions about his judgment as a party leader”

Claim: "Many states without collective bargaining, such as Arizona, Nevada and North Carolina, have far larger budget deficits than many that do, including Ohio."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Gary Herbert: Federal shutdowns cost states millions of dollars. He says they also reveal failure of federal leaders to pay their obligations. Herbert: One Solution to the Shutdown? Give More Power to the States. The relative strength of public-sector unions has helped prop up organized labor as a whole in recent years, he says. The Supreme Court in June ruled that government workers can’t be required to pay fees to the unions that represent them, Herbert says. But he says there’s no way to measure how the effect of that decision is reflected.

Claim: "By the end of 2015, more than 1,300 people will have died on Georgia roads. One of out evey four fatalities resulted from drunken driving."
Evidence Summary: Texas, which enacted an all-offender law in 2015, has seen drunken-driving fatalities rise since then. The number of deaths overall, however, decreased 1.8 percent in 2017 after increasing the two previous years. The annual total cost of motor vehicle crashes is approximately $242 billion. Approximately 100 people are killed and more than 8,500 are injured every day on U.S. roadways, according to the 2019 Roadmap report. The report was released by the Kaiser Family Foundation.

Claim: "We now have a pro-American president in France, which shows if you live long enough, anything can happen in this world."
Evidence Summary: “I am proud to be here to announce that I will do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes to remove a president.” “Believe it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about.’ “It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing”

Claim: "Obama ""refused to not only put his hand on his heart during the Pledge of Allegiance, but refused to say the pledge."""
Evidence Summary: Obama's remarks do not support Trump's proposal for a border wall, which the former president has criticized. Instead, Obama was asking Congress to approve an emergency appropriation to deal with the surge. “I think [black voter] expectations for Obama were somewhat tempered,” Moore said, “until he came out in favor of the gay marriage issue.” “This is an insult to the American people that the president of the United States does not officially recognize or give any ceremony for Dr. King”

Claim: People committed involuntarily for 72 hours under the Baker Act will get their guns back automatically and immediately upon discharge....and their commitment is never entered into a background check database.
Evidence Summary: California has raised the minimum age to buy rifles and shotguns from 18 to 21. Anyone convicted of certain domestic violence charges after January 1 will face a lifetime ban on gun ownership. In Illinois, authorities now have the right to seize firearms from people determined to be a danger to themselves or others. A similar “red flag” law will go into effect in New Jersey later this year. The Trump administration moved last month to ban bump stocks, the firearm attachments that allow semi-automatic weapons to fire like machine guns.

Claim: "In Wisconsin, 98 percent of all small businesses will qualify for income-tax relief under my plan, freeing them to expand and create jobs."
Evidence Summary: Walker-Peddakotla: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" Brisben: "We will bring capital, technical assistance and mentorship to help Illinoisans across our state start and build new businesses and new jobs. Our economic success depends upon it’s" "I will work with the legislature to legalize, tax and regulate the sale of recreational cannabis in Illinois. We will approach education with a holistic mindset," Brisben said.

Claim: "Says to Hillary Clinton, You heard what I said about (the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal), and all of a sudden you were against it."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi referred to climate change as “the existential threat of our time,” overlooking global terrorism or ISIS. She also broke from long-standing Justice Department precedent by musing about indicting a sitting president. Pelosi warned Trump that he could put his partisan solidarity at risk if he delivers on his threat to declare a state of emergency as a way of bypassing Congress for wall funds. She is not a person who if I had to guess, thinks very highly of Donald Trump. I think she thinks quite lowly of him.

Claim: On the status of illegal immigrants
Evidence Summary: The fight over the wall raises the same specter of expansive state power that can be marshaled against vulnerable political minorities. Like Muslim visitors, refugees and other migrants from Central and South America have been demonized as a group for the actions of a few. How many more people in our country – like police officer Ronil Singh and Kate Steinle – must be tragically killed by illegal immigrants before politicians on Capitol Hill finally take action? The United States cannot be seen as providing a pass to those who come here unlawfully.

Claim: A new presidential helicopter is now going to cost as much as Air Force One.
Evidence Summary: The F-35 program, while experiencing a number of setbacks, technical delays and groundings throughout the years, is generally considered to be on the mend. The Air Force and Marine Corps variants have been declared ready to deploy, and the Navy version is expected to reach that point as early as next month. A Nigerian Air Force helicopter crashed in combat, as fighting raged against Boko Haram extremists for control of the strategic town of Baga in northeastern Nigeria. The helicopter crash occurred Wednesday, according to a tweet by air force spokesman, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola.

Claim: "Utah was the No. 1 job creator in this country during my years of service as governor, with a 5.9 percent increase in jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown.

Claim: "An amendment, pushed by Lyndon Johnson many years ago, threatens religious institutions with a loss of their tax-exempt status if they openly advocate their political views."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump set to proclaim January 16 as Religious Freedom Day. Todd Starnes says it's a moment to celebrate all faiths (or none) in the US. He says the battle lines of the cultural battle have been set in favor of the bigots. Starne: Freedom of religion currently serves as code for bigots to justify their discriminatory beliefs and the continuation of verbal and physical violence against minority communities. It's time for civil rights, human rights and atheist groups to organise against the emboldened Christian hardliners.

Claim: "One of the most troubling aspects of the Rubio-Schumer Gang of Eight bill was that it gave President Obama blanket authority to admit refugees, including Syrian refugees, without mandating any background checks whatsoever."
Evidence Summary: Senate Republicans plan to vote this week on a fix to the immigration system. The bill would change how minors from Central America seek asylum. It would also gut existing asylum laws for children and trafficking victims. The proposal would require them to apply for asylum in their home country instead of at the southwest border, as many have done in recent years. The number who could apply would be limited to 50,000 a year, and only 15,000 could be approved every year, according to the bill.

Claim: "Once again, a police officer has been killed with an illegal gun from Georgia a state that last year did the NRAs bidding and weakened its already lax gun laws."
Evidence Summary: A 14-year-old boy holding an airsoft gun was fatally shot by a Tempe, Arizona, police officer on Tuesday. In Davis, California, a police officer was ambushed and shot dead on Jan. 10. In Arizona, the killing of a Salt River Police officer appears to have been accidental. "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets," said the sheriff of the county where the officer was killed.

Claim: "In 2015 roughly 10,000 political arrests occurred in Cuba. That is five times as many as occurred in 2010, when there were only about 2,000."
Evidence Summary: The survey results reflect the rejection of the Cuban regime and its policies and practices. There is a collective weariness that has festered over time after so much frustration and oppression. Some significant changes did take place under Raul Castro, including more access to the Internet by critics of the government, and the chance for Cubans to run their own businesses. Dissidents still report incidents of beatings and arrests for participating in peaceful marches or expressing opposition. “If the polling is an accurate portrait, likely an ‘exasperation factor’ contributed to the increase in those supporting the ‘embargo,’” said John S. Kavulich, president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, Inc.

Claim: "Obama's proposed budget doubles the debt in five years, triples it in 10 years."
Evidence Summary: Julian Zelizer: If the U.S. is nothing but an economy, the state of the union is good. But the nation faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment, he says. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive, he writes. Zelizer says it was silly for Obama to take credit for the recovery he inherited last year, but he could plausibly argue that his tax cuts provided a shot of economic adrenaline.

Claim: "Of the states that have a lieutenant governor, many are currently discussing the need for such an obsolete office."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom, 51, had been the state’s lieutenant governor — largely a ceremonial position — for eight years under Mr. Brown. Before that, he served as mayor of San Francisco, where he positioned himself, for the most part, on the liberal side of the spectrum. He was an early promoter of same-sex marriage and the legalization of recreational marijuana. He promised to represent “a California for all,’’ including rural Californians who live in the most economically challenged and conservative rural regions of the state.

Claim: "Since 2010, eight children in Georgia have died due to vehicular heatstroke."
Evidence Summary: A Michigan family of five was killed Sunday when a wrong-way driver believed to be drunk crashed into their SUV on a Kentucky interstate as they were returning from a vacation. The Florida Highway Patrol says five children from Louisiana and two tractor-trailer truck drivers died in a fiery crash on a Florida interstate. An unnamed volunteer at the Avoyelles House of Mercy church in Marksville said the congregation lost "half of our babies" in the crash. The volunteer was quoted on the Facebook page of U.S. Sen. Bill Cassidy.

Claim: "Every day, 34 Americans are murdered with guns."
Evidence Summary: Nearly 40,000 Americans were killed with firearms in 2017, the majority of them gun suicides. "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets," Cohen says. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he adds. "We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control and ultimately fuel serious violence," he says. 'We are seeing an increase in this country in mass shootings and targeted attacks in which the perpetrator is motivated by some ideological belief'

Claim: "Says Bill Nelson sold agricultural land for home development, pocketing at least $1.4 million."
Evidence Summary: Mick Mulvaney was co-owner of a company that wanted to build a strip mall. The company borrowed $1.4 million from a family firm owned by a prominent local businessman. Eventually, the project fell apart and the mall never got built. Mark Zuckerberg’s spokesman endorsed Andrade”s perspective. “I have spent more than half my life tending to these lands. Hopefully, my family and I will be able to do so well into the future,” he said.

Claim: "Says carpet bombing means bombing not a city, but the location of the troops, with embedded special forces to direct the air power."
Evidence Summary: ISIS is already morphing into an insurgency that has begun striking targets far beyond these battlefields. The American-led air campaign has been pummelling this territory, carrying out airstrikes on 1,100 targets in the first two weeks of January alone. Commanders here tell us the final push could take a month or more. The complex attack on a highly secured base underlined the heavy pressure facing Afghan security forces as increasingly confident Taliban fighters have stepped up operations. Last week, Taliban fighters set off a car bomb outside a highly fortified compound killing at least five people and wounding more than 110 in Kabul.

Claim: "The Brady Campaign has given me a 100 percent, not 99, 100 percent rating."
Evidence Summary: Brady told students at the University of Pennsylvania that he had never smoked marijuana but planned to try it. He said he would but now says he'll wait until it is legal in the state. The Republican-controlled General Assembly is unlikely to approve legalization any time soon. The Inquirer followed up with Brady this week, asking if he still harbored the dream of engaging in a little reefer madness. Brady: "I honestly, truly believe that we’re going to get this passed"

Claim: "If the sequester hits, hundreds of thousands of Americans will lose access to primary care and preventive care like flu vaccinations and cancer screenings."
Evidence Summary: For the vast majority of the federal government’s public health efforts, it's business as usual. Congress has already passed five of its major appropriations bills. But seven bills are outstanding, including those that fund the Interior, Agriculture and Justice departments. This sets a precedent for Democrats shutting down the government to fulfill any campaign promise as well, says Dr. Tom Frieden, president of Kaiser Permanente in Washington, D.C. and a former health care executive. He urges Congress to work with the White House to find a solution.

Claim: "A little-known unit of the Department of Justice, the Community Relations Service, was deployed to Sanford, FL, following the Trayvon Martin shooting to help organize and manage rallies and protests against George Zimmerman."
Evidence Summary: The new social justice centers offer counseling to families of people who say they have suffered police-related trauma. Despite the challenges, the new centers have become community focal points for residents' complaints, Mukami said. “We put ourselves out there, we make ourselves available to the public, but we don’t receive the participation from the community we would like to see,” said Detective Claudia Mera of the Community Affairs Unit. The unit holds a meeting once every three months and invites area residents to bring up concerns.

Claim: [N]early one in three primary care doctors are forced to limit the number of Medicare patients they see.
Evidence Summary: GP services have been under strain, partly as a result of the ageing population. One in five patients have to wait at least 15 days to see a family doctor. Of the 15.4m missed appointments each year, about 7.2m are with family doctors, adding up to more than 1.2million GP hours wasted each year. This risks fuelling a vicious cycle of poorer access to care for those with the greatest need, said Dr Becks Fisher, a GP and policy fellow at the Health Foundation thinktank.

Claim: "On Obama, ""The press warns the 'Taxman Cometh.'"""
Evidence Summary: Americans for Tax Fairness says securing Trump's tax returns "is an important public policy objective and a legitimate exercise of Congress's oversight authority" John Bolton snubbed by Turkey's president as rift between NATO allies deepens. John McAfee says he has not paid taxes for eight years. The IRS has convened a grand jury in the state of Tennessee to charge four of his campaign workers with unspecified IRS crimes, McAfee said in a video posted to Twitter on January 22. He is currently on a boat fleeing U.S. authorities.

Claim: Too many tattoos on visible body parts keepsome applicants out of the military.
Evidence Summary: When I applied to a previous job teaching middle school, I dyed my hair navy blue. A week before school started, I asked my principal if it was all right that my hair was an unnatural color. Even while wearing long sleeves, the bottom of the tattoos is visible on my wrist. Am I delusional to think I could ever teach again? surely no parent would want a tattooed teacher in front of their children? —Fully Decorated Officer, New York City, U.S.

Claim: "Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car."
Evidence Summary: Pope Francis insists public officials live simply, honestly and transparently. He didn't mention the Venezuela crisis during his first remarks in Panama after a meeting with President Juan Carlos Varela. He thanked the Panamanian government for "opening the doors of your home" to young pilgrims who have flocked here for World Youth Day. Francis rounds out the day with his evening welcome to tens of thousands of young Catholics gathered for the church's big youth rally. He expressed concern Monday over the rise of populism and nationalism in Europe.

Claim: Tax increases could come into play as a result of the debt ceiling deal.
Evidence Summary: Pay-go applies to discretionary spending that is approved through the normal appropriations procedure. Pay-go replaces the current so-called "cut-go" provisions, which require only that mandatory spending increases be matched with other cuts to mandatory spending. The deficit jumped by 17 percent in 2018, after the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul passed in 2017. The Democratic party platform calls for a tax on carbon dioxide, an energy tax. The Democrats are showing bared teeth and American taxpayers have a history of responding poorly to tax hikes dating back to 1773.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama said that if he doesnt turn the economy around after three years in office, hell be a one-term president."
Evidence Summary: David Frum: If the U.S. is nothing but an economy, the state of the union is good. Frum says the nation faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, he says. He says the actions of the 44th and 45th occupants of the White House offer clues on how that process will play out. The Democrats have yet to find a compelling alternative economic message, Frum writes.

Claim: "The average American family saw income rise $7,500 under Bill Clinton and decline $2,000 under George Bush."
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households has declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. By 2050, the median white family will have $174,000 of wealth, while Latino median wealth will be just $8,600. The number of households with $10m or more skyrocketed by 856%. Most things in American life are cheaper than they were 50 years ago, except for the things that middle-class families need most. These are all much more expensive: Health care, daycare, college tuition, housing in places with good public schools.

Claim: "After my first year as governor, I was one of the most unpopular governors, maybe the most unpopular governor in the country. ... It changed."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom has pledged to increase spending on early childhood education and a few other programs. John Sutter says Newsom should follow the fiscal practices of outgoing Gov. Bruce Rauner. He asks if Newsom will be as prescriptive as Gov. Mario Cuomo. Sutter: Newsom's victory over unpopular Democratic incumbent Pat Quinn in 2014 gave him a bully pulpit and an opportunity, not a crown, to advance his agenda. He says the coercive power of the state should be invoked sparingly.

Claim: "When Mitt Romney was governor, Massachusetts ranked 47th out of 50 states in job creation."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote in the Washington Post that President Donald Trump has not risen to the mantle of the office. Romney has a history of flip-flopping on a wide variety of issues. He was all too happy to accept Trump’s endorsements during his own presidential run in 2012 and in his race for the Senate last year. Despite the criticism, Romney got this shoutout from departing Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz): "Very pleased GOP Senator-elect Mitt Romney is speaking some truth"

Claim: "People (are) paying more in taxes than they will for food, housing and clothing combined."
Evidence Summary: In wealthy countries, average top personal income tax rates fell from 62 percent in 1970 to 38 percent in 2013. Oxfam calls for a new economic model, a “human economy’ where tax systems for corporations and the super-rich are overhauled. This money would then be plowed into providing universal public services like education and healthcare as key to tackling inequality and poverty. “Inequality is not inevitable,” the report says, “it’s a political choice.”

Claim: "A lot of the move to free the slaves ... did not come from the federal government. It came from a growing movement among the people, particularly people of faith."
Evidence Summary: "Our government may at some time be in the hands of a bad man," he says. "We must demand more from our leaders, and ourselves" "It’s not the only outlook that he has, but it's within the realm of legitimacy," he adds. "It's hard to communicate how fundamental the change was" "We need to make sure that we don’t repeat the mistakes of the past,” he says, “and that we do not repeat them”

Claim: "The Obama-GOP compromise raises taxes, it raises the death tax."
Evidence Summary: Republicans spent the final weeks of the 2018 midterm elections downplaying their tax cut. They instead sought to fire up their base with tough talk on immigration and an unrelenting focus on House Speaker-in-waiting Nancy Pelosi. Of the GOP ads that referred to taxes, 40 percent also mentioned Pelosi, and 35 percent also raised the subject of health care – often suggesting Democrats would raise taxes to pay for a universal health care system. The analysis comes from Democratic strategists at Navigator Research and The Messina Group, and looks at television ads, social media posts, campaign Facebook ads.

Claim: "The R.I. Turnpike and Bridge Authority was supposed to exist only until the bonds used to build the Newport Bridge were paid off through tolls. Once the bonds were paid, the Newport Bridge was to be transferred to the State of Rhode Island and become toll-free."
Evidence Summary: Illinois House and Senate passed bill to replace nine toll board members. John Sutter: Lawmakers were truly in a hurry to appease the new governor or get some new blood. He says it shows risks of ignoring what it means to fail, at scale, in a booming city that grows every month. If it works, it’s a scandal that the MTA never proposed it in the first place, Sutter says, and if it doesn’t, it will go down as the ultimate symbol of the governor”s rash micromanagement of public works projects.

Claim: "Over the last two years since President Obama has taken office, the federal government has added 200,000 new federal jobs."
Evidence Summary: The US has now added jobs for 99 consecutive months – the longest streak of job creation since records began. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. The figures were cheered by president Donald Trump. “GREAT JOBS NUMBERS JUST ANNOUNCED!” he wrote on Twitter.

Claim: On unemployment rates: We have counties in Southwest Virginia that are well into double digits and some that are pushing 20 percent.
Evidence Summary: Wages in Nashville slipped 0.7 percent in the fourth quarter while those in Detroit declined 0.6 percent. The percentage of jobs that don't require a bachelor's degree that are good or promising ranges from 35 percent in Spokane, Washington, to 9 percent in Washington, D.C. Cities and states should focus on broader types of employment to extend economic improvement to every part of society, instead of trying to attract the big names such as Amazon, says David Lewis, CEO of human resources outsourcer and consultancy OperationsInc.

Claim: "Kohls Department Stores in 2012 announced the creation of 3,000 new jobs."
Evidence Summary: Health care and education services added 82,000 jobs in December, the biggest jump since February 2012. Restaurants and drinking placed posted a net gain of 40,700 jobs. Builders added 38,000 construction jobs, while manufacturers increased their payrolls by 32,000 workers. The monthly jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. "It really was a banner year," said Martha Gimbel, director of economic research at the Indeed Hiring Lab.

Claim: "The GOP health care plan ""would allow health insurance companies to continue engaging in unfair and discriminatory practices like denying coverage to people because of a pre-existing medical condition."""
Evidence Summary: If the district judge's ruling that the law is unconstitutional holds, the consequences would be far reaching. Such a ruling would also eliminate the law's expansion of Medicaid, enhanced drug benefit for seniors, bans on limits on insurance coverage, and the ability of young adults to stay on their parents' health plans. Democrats will need to quickly introduce bills that reinforce the ACA’s original protections and prevent the Trump administration from weakening it further. Republicans have a different choice to make. They can use the results of the election as an opportunity to officially cede the ground they have already really lost.

Claim: "In K-12 education, our kids are scoring at the bottom of science and mathematics right now in the industrialized world -- at the bottom."
Evidence Summary: The Los Angeles Unified School District boasts of graduating about 80 percent of students. But only 60 percent of those who graduated actually completed the necessary coursework. In 2017, only 40 percent ofStudents in the school district met national standards for literacy. Only an abysmal 30 percent met math standards. "It's really easy to teach to the test, (but) that doesn't help the kids grow or be part of the community," says Cullen Murphy, 44, who teaches seventh-grade math.

Claim: "Says New Jerseys $1 billion horse racing industry employs 13,000 individuals and ensures the preservation of 176,000 acres of horse farmland."
Evidence Summary: The rural vote helped put Trump over the top in the 2016 election, but farmers aren’t doing so well with him in the White House. Net farm income fell an estimated 12 percent last year, down about 40 percent from its peak in 2013. Haddonfield lies just across the Delaware River from Philadelphia, providing its residents access to the jobs that city offers. Some 40 percent of Hanover residents commute by walking – by far the highest rate in New Hampshire and the second highest rate of any U.S. city.

Claim: "Royalties foroil and other energy sources are the ""second-largest revenue source to the federal government after the IRS."""
Evidence Summary: Transportation remains the nation's number one source of CO2 emissions for the third year in a row. But the largest emissions growth came from two sectors "often ignored in clean energy and climate policymaking: buildings and industry" The report estimates emissions from residential and commercial buildings increased by 10% last year, reaching "their highest level since 2004" Without significant changes, industrial emissions will become bigger contributors to US CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions, the report says. The report calls on federal and state lawmakers to cut off the $20 billion in subsidies fossil fuels receive each year.

Claim: "The No. 2 owner of Fox News is Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, who said, A strong American Government is not good for us."
Evidence Summary: CNN, along with many in the mainstream media, is intent on seeing President Trump fail more than it wants to see America secure. We must decide whether, in the name of ascendant values such as efficiency and scale, we are willing to allow democratic purpose to be usurped. We are an anxious nation living under a cloud of uncertainty that never seems to blow away. We’re always waiting for the other shoe to drop, wondering what it will be this time. And we’'re exhausted from it.

Claim: "When NAFTA was passed, there was an acceleration of immigration from Mexico because people were in search of jobs."
Evidence Summary: In the first ten years of NAFTA, migration from Mexico to the U.S. more than doubled. The agreement was negotiated in secret with over 500 official U.N. advisors. That's not going to fix the problem facing workers both there, lower wages, and here, in a race to the bottom. "I think for a long time, left-wingers were happy to marshal the language of U.K. versus them," says Julian Zelizer. "And then Trump just came in and said, "Well, screw all the progressive stuff, just like, fuck those Mexicans who are taking our jobs"

Claim: "Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. spent $1.3 trillion on tax cuts for the wealthy and trillions each on a war and on Medicare drug benefits."
Evidence Summary: As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion, and is expected to balloon above $1 trillion next year. That explains why the Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026, three years earlier than the projections in its previous report.

Claim: "Says Bernie Sanders once said, Instead of removing the conditions that make people depressed, modern society gives them antidepressant drugs."
Evidence Summary: "We're not talking about a kind of one-size-fits-all solution to depression," says Bullmore. The number of times patients needed hospital treatment fell by up to a fifth when they took the drugs. The researchers at University College London say their findings have "enormous potential" But they, and independent experts, say the results now need to be tested in clinical trials. The starting point for the researchers was a list of currently prescribed medications that science predicts could help patients with severe mental health disorders.

Claim: "The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office concluded ObamaCare will cost the U.S. more than 800,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration announced proposed rule changes that would lead to a modest premium increase next year under the Affordable Care Act. The roughly 1 percent increase could feed into the Democratic argument that the Trump administration is trying to "sabotage" coverage for millions. The administration said the proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. The Pelosi-backed principle, Ocasio-Cortez charged in a Twitter post Wednesday, was a "dark political maneuver designed to hamstring progress on healthcare"

Claim: "There are prototype cars that get between 100 and 150 miles per gallon and ""we could have those cars in your garages in a couple of years."""
Evidence Summary: Automakers have promised to start selling hordes of electric cars in the next few years. But only two will be unveiled at the big Detroit auto show this week. Meanwhile, there will be plenty of SUVs and high-horsepower sports cars on display. So how credible is the industry's pledge to move toward fuel-efficient vehicles when it keeps cranking out more lucrative trucks and sport utilities? Some environmental groups contend that companies aren't really interested in efficiency because they're making tons of money from the sales of less-efficient SUVs.

Claim: "30,000 Arizonans may have no choice on Affordable Care Act coverage."
Evidence Summary: Clinics are trying to keep patients informed about the risks that may be coming. They don't want to scare them into dropping health benefits or avoiding medical care right now. A Texas judge has agreed to stay his own ruling pending appeal, a reprieve that will keep the law intact for now. If the ruling is upheld, the future for millions of Americans who depend on ACA protections to obtain treatment could be bleak, writes CNN's Gloria Borger. She has two sisters who went without medical care for years prior to the ACA because they had inadequate insurance.

Claim: "There are corporations in this nation, some of the biggest corporations in this nation, who do not pay taxes."
Evidence Summary: JULIÁN CASTRO: We've had basically the-- the last forty years essentially of-- of lower and lower commitment on people at the very top. Same thing goes for corporations. We have corporations-- multinational corporations that are hardly paying anything in federal taxes. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "I think that we can consider different ways, different proposals, to be able to raise more revenue"

Claim: "The United States has a supply of ""more than 100 years of natural gas."""
Evidence Summary: Of the projected 120 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide, 80 billion tons would come from oil production. The other 40 billion are pegged to the production of natural gas, the country’s top source of electricity. The industry has long touted natural gas as a “bridge fuel” from dirtier coal to a low-carbon power system. But methane, which traps more heat than CO2 but dissipates in the atmosphere much faster, leaks during the drilling and shipping process. The U.S. is now the world's top producer of both natural gas and oil.

Claim: "In his first TV interview as president, Obama said we should talk to Iran."
Evidence Summary: “Rather than remain trapped in the past, I have made it clear to Iran’s leaders and people that my country is prepared to move forward. The question, now, is not what Iran is against, but rather what future it wants to build,” Pompeo said. “The age of self-inflicted American shame is over, and so are the policies that produced so much needless suffering. Now comes the real ‘new beginning,’” he said.

Claim: "Says U.S. Reps. Phil Gingrey and Jack Kingston have even changed votes to what I voted, multiple times."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi needed an “absolute majority” of votes cast from the House floor to regain her old job on Thursday. With 220 votes out of 430, she easily beat Republican Rep. Kevin McCarthy. But 15 Democrats – many of them newly elected lawmakers – didn’t cast a vote for Pelosi, with 12 of those lawmakers voting for someone other than her. While most cast votes for fellow House Democrats or voted “present,” a former vice president and failed gubernatorial nominee also received support.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama want to raise taxes on dividends, a move that would crash the stock market."
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy over who does and doesn’t understand how America’s tax system works. What has been lost in the dust-up is that the wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda that could become a reality after 2020. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, took us in exactly the wrong direction.

Claim: "(Environmentalists) said Were only going to stop coal mining above 2,000 feet. ... Well guess where all the coal in the state of Tennessee is? Above 2,000 feet."
Evidence Summary: A new report proposes a plan to phase out fossil fuel use under a Green New Deal. Colorado voters rejected a proposition in November that would have made 85 percent of nonfederal land off limits to the fossil fuel industry. A new proposal aims to sharpen the Tennessee Valley Authority into the speartip of a so-called Green New deal. The plan would guarantee good-paying jobs to workers in dirty industries and zero out emissions on an aggressive timeline, the report says.. The People’s Policy Project, a left-leaning think tank, published the 10-page report Wednesday.

Claim: "Says that with President Obamas re-election, state and federal income tax rates for some taxpayers will rise to roughly 65 percent."
Evidence Summary: The top tax on the wealthy should rise to as high as 70 percent, Ocasio-Cortez told "60 Minutes" earlier this month. That approach stands in stark contrast to Mr. Trump's 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Higher marginal rates on the richest Americans would mark a return to the more progressive tax structure of the 1950s and 1960s. President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and Mr. Bush wasn’t re-elected.

Claim: "If President Barack Obama strikes a nuclear deal with Iran, the next president could revoke such an executive agreement with the stroke of a pen and future Congresses could modify the terms of the agreement at any time."
Evidence Summary: Trita Parsi, author of Losing an Enemy: Obama, Iran and the Triumph of Diplomacy, said he thought Pompeo was wrong to celebrate withdrawing from the deal. Parsi said Trump has "reversed our willful blindness" to the danger of Iran and withdrawn from the "failed nuclear deal" On Sunday, the head of the country’s nuclear programme, Ali Akbar Salehi, said technicians had begun “preliminary activities for designing” a new way of producing 20%-enriched uranium.

Claim: "President Obama has no plan to reduce the deficit, let alone pay down the debt."
Evidence Summary: Frida Ghitis: After two years of unified government, the U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit. She says the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. Ghitis says the president has kept his promise not to address the unsustainable trajectory of the entitlement state. The Republican-controlled Senate will not deliberate about, much less pass, legislation the president does not favor, she says. The evident theory is that it would be lese-majeste for the Senate to express independent judgments.

Claim: Wisconsins Government Accountability Board wanted to consider Mickey Mouse and Adolf Hitler as valid signatures on recall petitions.
Evidence Summary: The Flossmoor Electoral Board tentatively decides to remove Bruni from the ballot. James Mitros and Perry Hoag filed near-identical challenges to Bruni’s candidacy. In an unrelated challenge, Elgin resident Randolph “Randy” Hopp challenged the petitions of Winfried Cooper. The electoral board did remove two candidates’ names from the mayoral ballot, but not Brown’S or Wilson’’ The board also ruled that tech entrepreneur Neal Sales-Griffin can appear on the ballot, leaving the field set at 14 candidates.

Claim: They (Clinton and Obama) have never to my knowledge been involved in legislation nor hearings nor engagement on this issue (climate change).
Evidence Summary: Even if a new committee were created, Green New Deal legislation would have a snowball’s chance in Phoenix of passing the Republican-controlled Senate. With Congress divided and many Republicans still downplaying global warming risks, few Washington watchers expect much, if any, meaningful energy or climate legislation to emerge from Capitol Hill. “I don’t have high expectations about legislation,” said David Konisky, associate professor at Indiana University Bloomington’S School of Public and Environmental Affairs. One area that could generate bipartisan support is carbon capture and storage.

Claim: FACT: Repealing Obamacare would be easier than repealing Prohibition.
Evidence Summary: David Frum: It's too early to measure the long-term social and physiological impacts of lifting the prohibition. Frum says it's high time to unpack our highly gendered received wisdom. He says the Affordable Care Act's greatest contribution may be that it opened the door for sick people to get insurance.Frum: Our next governor and mayor need to get this right. Turn green light into a flashing yellow light. It's time for a reassessment of the failed experiment of federal prohibition.

Claim: "McCain ""said no to higher fuel-efficiency standards for cars."""
Evidence Summary: Wheeler is a close ally of EPA chief Scott Pruitt. He has proposed gutting fuel economy standards for new vehicles. He also wants to weaken a landmark Obama-era power plant regulation. Republicans appear to have given him their blessing at a Senate hearing on the issue. The hearing is expected to last until the end of the month. The final decision on freezing the standards at around 30 mpg is expected later this year. Wheeler. The EPA's new Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient (SAFE) Vehicles rule would help lower the cost of vehicles, he said.

Claim: "Says under the Senate immigration bill, newly legalized immigrants will pay every tax possible, but you dont get a single benefit for 10 years."
Evidence Summary: The Republican legislation, unveiled Monday night, would provide $5.7 billion in wall funding and large spending increases for detention and removal of immigrants. It would also provide three-year provisional protections for 700,000 of the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. The proposal also includes a job-guarantee program offering “a living wage job to every person who wants one;” a “just transition” for workers affected by climate change; basic income programs; universal health care and more.

Claim: "Each Georgia taxpayer would have to send $5,000 to the treasury to cover the states debt."
Evidence Summary: The hearing involves more than $17 billion in debt backed by sales-tax bonds the government issued. The restructuring plan was recently approved after more than 8,000 bondholders voted on it. The board said late Monday the debt includes all general obligation bonds that were issued in 2012 and 2014 in “clear violation” of debt limits established by Puerto Rico’s Constitution. Instead of adhering to a balanced budget requirement, they were used to finance deficit spending, the board said.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney wrote that if Social Security was done in the private sector, it would be called criminal."
Evidence Summary: In his public career Romney has shown a willingness to do what needs to be done, writes Julian Zelizer. In 2012, facing a much different electorate, Romney abandoned that stance and called for defunding Planned Parenthood to win the evangelical-heavy Republican presidential primaries. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare, Zelizer writes. Zelizer: Romney’s win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump.

Claim: A record number of Hispanics were elected to the U.S House of Representatives...
Evidence Summary: The 116th United State Congress will convene and participate in a swearing-in on Capitol Hill on Thursday. The new Congress comprises a number of historical firsts, and record-setting numbers of women. Rep. Sylvia García, D-Texas is one of two women — the other is Rep. Verónica Escobar — making history as the first Latinas representing Texas in the Congress. According to the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO), there are thirty-three Latino Democrats in the current Congress.

Claim: A state bill would end a longstanding requirement that local governments repair highways and sidewalks -- and block injured citizens from suing over neglected maintenance.
Evidence Summary: A bill that could have led to the abolishment of several smaller Lake County township highway districts was vetoed by former Gov. Bruce Rauner on his way out the door. A new bill that was slightly revamped but is “basically the same bill’ is already moving in the General Assembly and will be sent to new Gov. Rod Blagojevich. Under terms of the original legislation, current highway commissioners in township road districts with fewer than 15 miles would have to step down after the next election.

Claim: Miller Brewing is not a U.S. company any more. Neither is Anheuser-Busch.
Evidence Summary: Zimbabweans are still traumatized by hyperinflation, which hit 500 billion percent in 2008. Businesses and civil servants are demanding to be paid in dollars. Zimbabwe’s largest brewing company Delta Beverages, part-owned by Anheuser-Busch Inbev, threatened to accept only U.S. dollars as payment. The government on Monday postponed wage negotiations with civil service unions, who are planning a nationwide strike from Jan. 22 to press for U.s. dollar pay.

Claim: "An Iowa policy ""provides for a state round up of Iowa citizens who might be exposed to the swine flu virus."""
Evidence Summary: Supporters said the language is necessary to protect Iowa gun owners from onerous restrictions passed by local, state or federal lawmakers. Critics warned that the Iowa amendment would mean that future gun safety laws — and possibly current restrictions — would be blocked in court. Iowa constitutional amendments must be approved in two consecutive legislative sessions and then by a majority of voters. Governor Kim Reynolds said in a statement: “I am incredibly disappointed in today’s court ruling, because I believe that if death is determined when a heart stops beating, then a beating heart indicates life”

Claim: "Weve got 40 years of study now that show that, with a good preschool start, youre less likely to be on public dole, youre less likely to be in prison."
Evidence Summary: The report highlights a decline in opportunities for children, with nearly a third of 3,632 Sure Start children’s centres cut since 2009. Poor children have fallen behind their better-off counterparts by the age of five in half of local authorities in England. The report, titled The next generation: how intergenerational interaction improves life chances of children and young people, is published this week. It includes contributions from 20 organisations focused on the welfare of children, older people and the elderly.

Claim: "Richard Hayne, president and CEO of Urban Outfitters (is) a supporter of Rick Santorum and donated over $13,000 to him."
Evidence Summary: Hoffman gave $750,000 to American Engagement Technologies, a progressive tech start-up founded by former Obama administration official Mikey Dickerson. Dickerson spent $100,000 of Hoffman’s funds to hire New Knowledge, a social media research firm, to conduct research in Alabama. Tom Tunney by far leads the race in fundraising, having raised more than double the amount of his two challengers combined. Tom Ricketts took to sports radio to say “working with the alderman has not been very easy”

Claim: Says Donald Trump says he has foreign policy experience because he ran the Miss Universe pageant in Russia.
Evidence Summary: US President Donald Trump has denied that he worked for Russia. He was asked the same question by a Fox News host in an interview aired on Saturday. Trump made an appearance in an Agalarov music video in 2013 when he was in Moscow for the Miss Universe pageant. The real Trump previously appeared in a music video when the pageant was held in Moscow in 2013 and pretended to fire the singer as if he were a contestant on "The Apprentice" A spokesperson for the special counsel's office declined comment.

Claim: "Weve had 11,000 attempts to amend the Constitution since 1789."
Evidence Summary: “I believe that eventually, the Bill of Rights does need to be reevaluated. The First Amendment was written Dec. 15, 1791. That was about 226 years go,” Felton said. “Based on how much tech has changed and how fast it’s growing, how can a bill written 226 years ago still be 100 percent relevant?” Kurth agrees. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he said.

Claim: Says some in Congress are trying to create a separate government for those with a drop of Native Hawaiian blood.
Evidence Summary: Samantha Vang is one of five Hmong Americans to serve in Minnesota’s state House of Representatives. Vang joins Kaohly Her, Jay Xiong and Tou Xiongs as newly minted Hmong-American Minnesota House members. Scott Nishimoto was a senior at the University of Hawaii when a flyer on the school bulletin board caught his eye. Nishimoto applied, was accepted and became the institute's first Anheuser-Busch/Frank Hortonfellow.

Claim: "Numbers on illegal immigrants ""are down in terms of apprehensions, which indicates fewer illegal crossings, but also up in terms of actual enforcement actions."""
Evidence Summary: Illegal border crossings were actually lower last year than in 2014 and 2016. But there has been an uptick in recent months. The number of illegal border crossings is down from 1.6 million in 2000 to fewer than 400,000 last year. Research indicates that undocumented immigrants are much less likely to commit crime than native-born American citizens. The White House suggested at the weekend that thousands of terrorists were caught attempting to cross the US-Mexico border, but in fact all but a handful were stopped at airports.

Claim: "Obama ""wants a windfall profits tax on oil to go along with the new taxes he also plans for coal and natural gas."""
Evidence Summary: Economists call on the government to return that tax revenue directly to American citizens. Despite the overwhelming support for the plan, it’s unlikely to be a top priority in the current White House administration. “There is no appetite on our side to do” a carbon tax, Matthew Rooney, the head of the economic growth initiative at the George W. Bush Institute in Texas, told The Washington Post. A carbon tax is a tax on existence, because all aspects of living require energy, and hydrocarbons provide 80% of America's energy.

Claim: "If you will go look up the definition of act of God, weve used it in legal terms for a long time in this state."
Evidence Summary: In U.S. environmental law, the act of God protects companies from liability when their activities “unavoidably” pollute or degrade the land. Getting rid of the distinction wouldn’t necessarily change who is held responsible for disasters. It’s already almost impossible for companies to shed their liability using an act ofGod defense. It does not, despite its name, have much to say about God. Rather, it exists only to explain what the more common “act of man” cannot.

Claim: President Obama gave Egypts Muslim Brotherhood one and a half billion dollars.
Evidence Summary: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi in Cairo. Pompeo spoke at American University in Cairo about the important role America can play as a force for good in the Middle East. The U.S. has resumed weapons sales to Egypt that has been suspended over human rights concerns, including the jailing of several American citizens on false charges. America's nearly one and a half billion dollars a year is going to a regime accused of the worst abuses in Egypt's modern history.

Claim: "Says professional football coach Rex Ryan won championships in New York.The AFC, I think, twice."
Evidence Summary: Kraft is responsible for the growth of American football in Israel in recent years. He's sponsored the sport since it was launched in 1999, and there are now more than 2,000 active players on more than 80 teams playing at various levels. In 2017, he dedicated the Kraft Sports Complex in Jerusalem that includes Israel's first full-sized football field. The visit coincided with his second mission to bring Pro Football Hall of Fame players to Israel. The trip included Joe Montana, Jim Brown, Roger Staubach, Mike Singletary and other legendary former players.

Claim: "Health reform eliminates co-pays, deductibles, and other costs for preventative care and provides for free annual wellness checkups starting next year."
Evidence Summary:  Medicaid health plans are starting to pay for non-traditional services such as meals, transportation, housing and other forms of assistance to improve members’ health and reduce medical costs. That change follows efforts by state Medicaid programs to give health plans financial incentives to control spending. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services. The insurance industry would be regulated to play a minor role in the system. The idea truly is “fool’s gold.”

Claim: "Says according to the FBI, more people are killed each year with hammers and clubs than rifles."
Evidence Summary: Last year, nearly 64,000 were killed, the majority by firearms. Despite tight gun laws, arms are widely available. Drug traffickers in slums are commonly seen brandishing automatic weapons. In Brazil, a 1 percent rise in firearm availability increases the homicide rate by 2 percent. There is virtually no evidence to support the idea that expanding access to firearms increases individual safety and security. Virtually without exception, more guns equals more violence, says Yvonne Smith, Evanston, Illinois.

Claim: "Trade deals are negotiated in secret and, unlike corporate interests,politicians never invite the leaders of the AFL-CIO or steelworkers or the mine workers to come in and sit down in these meetings."
Evidence Summary: The GOP-controlled House approved the fast-track power, known as Trade Promotion Authority, in 2015. Critics of TPA argue that it deprives Congress of the essential right to debate and amend trade agreements before an up-or-down floor vote. Many Democrats viewed the vote on TPA as a de-facto referendum on then-President Barack Obama’s 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal. But labor unions, as well as many public health, consumer and environmental groups, opposed the mammoth trade deal on the grounds it would provide lopsided benefits to corporations.

Claim: "Regarding the USA Freedom Act, There is nothing we are allowed to do under this bill that we could not do before."
Evidence Summary: “Anyone who comes here must be subject to our laws and customs,” he says. “This is literally what government is for.” “I believe that eventually, the Bill of Rights does need to be reevaluated,’ he adds. � “It’s the role of the lawmakers, the courts and members of the public to establish firm rules with regard to vulnerabilities to ensure the maintenance of a free, democratic society.�”

Claim: "Our law enforcement agencies have found bodies in the desert, either buried or just lying out there, that have been beheaded."
Evidence Summary: “I was in the room for hours, with them coming in and out and taking breaks. On the third day I confessed. They said to admit to two months with Isis. It's like a molotov cocktail waiting to explode," he said. “Of course, I saw the videos. I think with the beheadings, that’s execution. I’m from the United States, from Texas. They like to execute people, too. So, I really don’t see any difference.”

Claim: "Says Rep. Bruce Braley, D-Iowa, skipped an important VA reform hearing to attend three fundraisers."
Evidence Summary: New York members were still upset that another member of their delegation, freshman Rep. Anthony Brindisi, was blocked from getting on the Armed Services Committee on Monday night. New York delegation held a late-night conference call Monday night and vowed to push harder for Rice when the Steering Committee, which oversees committee assignments, reconvened Tuesday night. Democrats, who have repeatedly requested Whitaker’s appearance, suspect the acting attorney general, who served as chief of staff to former attorney general Jeff Sessions until he was controversially promoted.

Claim: "Says CIA Director George Tenet told the Bush administration that the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack was coming. So they did have advanced notice."
Evidence Summary: Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats presented the strategy to the ODNI workforce Tuesday. Coats said the U.S. intelligence community must also do everything it can to be open with the public about what it’s doing. The new strategy is broadly similar to the last iteration, published in 2014, that also focused on the threats from adversarial nation-states, extremist and transnational criminal organizations, and the unpredictable effects of the diffusion of technology. The greatest terrorism threat we face is from what we call Homegrown Violent Extremists (HVEs)

Claim: Says Hillary Clinton doesnt believe in your right to keep a gun at home for self-defense.
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand has spent the past six years campaigning for gun reform at the state and federal level. She told CBS's "60 Minutes" last year that she was "wrong" about her previous stances on gun control and was "embarrassed" by them. Universal background checks have been a key priority for gun safety organizations like hers and, apparently, the general public. Polling has suggested that as many as 97 percent of Americans support the move. But Democrats have been unable to pass background check legislation to close this gap.

Claim: "Says Jennifer Horn, chairwoman of the N.H. Republican Party, owes $92,000 in back taxes."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez's 70 percent income tax rate is the opening shot in a renewed war against middle class taxpayers. To date, not a single elected Democrat has denounced this opening gambit in the drive for higher income taxes, business taxes and energy taxes. The Citizens for Waters report to the Federal Election Commission from Dec. 11 lists $183,022 in debt to her daughter Karen Waters. Watchdog groups have raised questions about the propriety of campaign funds financially supporting a family member, as well as Waters raising contributions in excess of federal limits through an unusual process.

Claim: "The median net worth of American households hasnt changed much over the past decades, its about $20,000 ... but Congress average median net worth has ballooned, more than doubled."
Evidence Summary: The median net worth of an American homeowner is $231,400, according to the Federal Reserve. That is more than 44 times the median worth of renters, which is $5,200. Since 1983, median wealth for all US households declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. Meanwhile, the number of households with $10m or more skyrocketed by 856%. If the trajectory of the past three decades continues, by 2050 the median white family will have $174,000 of wealth, while Latino median wealth will be just $8,600.

Claim: "In April 2009 the Democrats were in control, and the congressional (approval) rating was 40 percent."
Evidence Summary: For the first time since 1994, more than half of Democrats, 51 percent, identified their political views as "liberal" The L-word has emerged from its exile, and is being embraced again by those who once shunned it. Republicans now hold 200 House seats. That's 46% of the lower chamber. It's the exact same number as President Trump's approval rating in our November NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll. The question is what does that 46% do now? It's clear they were even worse for Republicans than first understood.

Claim: "Unlike Benghazi, there were no investigations of the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing, none about key aspects of the 9/11 attacks and the Iraq War, and none about embassy attacks under George W. Bush."
Evidence Summary: Democrats hope to avoid the perception that their investigations are solely for political or electoral advantage. That is one reason why the new committee chairs are reluctant to engage in any incipient discussions about impeachment. Special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into whether the president conspired with foreign countries including Russia to influence the 2016 election to his benefit has already netted numerous high-profile guilty pleas. The committee disbanded one month after Clinton lost the election. The attack resulted in the deaths of four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens.

Claim: A Census Bureau worker says he was told to skew information to bring the unemployment rate down as we headed into an election season.
Evidence Summary: The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. With Trump leading the Republican Party’s crusade against minorities, immigrants and the working poor, the decision to tamper with the census sure looks like a clear effort to lower the response rate.

Claim: "Says that in polls about 2016 candidate leadership skills, he comes out two and three and four times higher than anybody else."
Evidence Summary: “I’ve always won, and I’m going to continue to win,” Mr. Trump reportedly said in 2016. “We claim we want nice people, but we don’t.” “Studies show that people want to associate with people who win.’ “ “You may not like the idea of a wall, but it’s an ambitious goal,’’ one expert said. � “I have a lot of confidence in my ability to get things done,‚’ another said.

Claim: The 2012 National Survey on Drug Use and Health found that up to half of daily marijuana smokers become addicted -- an estimated 2.7 million people in the U.S.
Evidence Summary: Of the nearly 800 of Michigan medical cannabis users surveyed, 51 percent admitted to driving while "a little high" and 21 percent said they had driven while "very high" That's a concern for law enforcement. Right now, there is no reliable roadside test to know for sure if a driver is impaired by cannabis. It’s nearly impossible to overdose on pot. But banning marijuana drives sales into the black market, where criminals do the selling. And criminals are more likely to settle their disagreements with guns.

Claim: "When I started in Ohio it was terrible. Now, were getting bipartisan support for our bills. And thats called leadership."
Evidence Summary: "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he says. For Republicans, this means designing market-driven, center-right solutions that actually solve problems while revealing their compassion. "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing when you look at who is representing us," he adds.

Claim: "As a Congressman, J.D. Hayworth was an avid earmarker who supported such pork as $220,000 to renovate a Maine Blueberry farm and $5.8 million for a Vermont snowmobile trail."
Evidence Summary: The group also includes lawmakers like New York Rep. Elise Stefanik, who has been a rising star in the GOP. Four other House Republicans – Rodney Davis of Illinois, Peter King of New York, Christopher Smith of New Jersey and Steve Stivers of Ohio – voted for some of the outstanding spending bills. The Hmong candidates elected to Minnesota’s House of Representatives, along with already-serving state Sen. Foung Hawj, have indeed been a source of pride for many. After graduating college, Jay Xiong said he went to work in the education field and has been involved in the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party.

Claim: "At least Obama didn't marry his cousin, as Giuliani did."
Evidence Summary: Giuliani said he was joking, and denied saying anything “untruthful” as a lawyer. “Somehow, I don’t think that will be it. But, if it is, so what do I care? I figure I can explain it to St. Peter. He will be on my side.” “To my knowledge, there's no collusion on the campaign,” Giuliani said on “Meet The Press.’

Claim: "Gov. (Rick) Perry helped balance his budget with about $6 billion worth of federal help, which he happily took, and then started blaming the members of Congress who had offered that help."
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom was inaugurated as California's new governor on Tuesday. He inherited a $28 billion deficit and left Mr. Newsom a $14 billion surplus. He also created an $18 billion so-called rainy day fund to help the state get through what is widely viewed as an inevitable coming recession. Mr. Brown’s insistence on holding onto state revenues was a source of continued friction with Democratic allies in the Legislature, who wanted to restore spending cuts that had been in place during the Great Recession.

Claim: "Of all the jobs President Obama claims to have created since he started, only 38.5 percent are women. So 61.5 percent have gone to men."
Evidence Summary: President has a right to toot his own horns during good economic times. But the upward trajectory of black, Hispanic and every other group’s employment rates has continued under President Barack Obama, six years before Trump took office. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’

Claim: "Amendment 2 on medical marijuana won a higher percentage of the vote than the last six Florida governors, including Jeb Bushs 2002 landslide."
Evidence Summary: As many as 1.4 million convicted felons are set to regain the right to vote. The measure comes from an amendment that was passed by 65 percent of Florida voters in November. In December, DeSantis said it would be months before Florida’s Republican-dominated legislature would approve “implementing language” to allow the measure to be passed into law, a claim that earned an immediate scorching rebuke from Melba Pearson, executive director of the ACLU of Florida.

Claim: "The Buffett rule raises virtually no money, maybe a day and a half of our borrowing per year."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he said. The Federal Reserve instituted a policy of forcing down interest rates to historically low levels. The “zero interest rate policy,” which continued until December 2015, revived the moribund American economy. Even blue-chip companies such at AT&T and G.E. are taking advantage of the low interest rates, to a fault. The debt markets are undergoing a healthy and much-needed correction.

Claim: "The Providence Economic Development Partnership . . .which you [Cicilline] chaired, loaned $103,000 in taxpayer funds to one of your campaign workers. The worker never paid back the loan."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials. In one town, a mayor’s campaign fund paid thousands of dollars to a village employee. Nearly one-third of the $881,321 brought in his campaign is under some form of scrutiny, the FEC says. The loans, first reported by the Tampa Bay Times, weren’t disclosed for two months.

Claim: "Were paying out-of-state residential facilities hundreds of thousands of dollars, if not more, to house children in state custody"
Evidence Summary: Lawyers sent a list to the Justice Department of more than a dozen facilities that failed to produce licenses when inspected. One of them is a rapidly expanding facility in Homestead, Florida, that is the largest facility for unaccompanied children in the country. The lead attorney for the team, Peter Schey, confirmed to CBS News that he wrote to the Office of Immigration Litigation on December 31 to notify it of the unlicensed facilities, as well as a slew of other issues he says violate the decades-old Flores Settlement Agreement.

Claim: The per-pupil cost in the [Blackstone Valley Prep] Mayoral Academy far outweighs the per-pupil cost in Cumberland public schools.
Evidence Summary: Antonio School District 34 spent years looking at “temporary” classrooms. District 128 officials dodged taking the question of spending $54.1 million to the voters. Hinsdale High School District 86 carelessly passed a zero tax levy. Some 138,000 Los Angeles students now attend charter schools, which deliver unambiguously better results.. The lousy education that Los Angeles public schools provides actually costs taxpayers more than sending students to most private schools. The problem isn’t money; it’s government incompetence.

Claim: "Before April 22, we have restored the rights of more than 18,000 individuals, which is more than the past seven governors combined in their four-year terms."
Evidence Summary: The right to vote was restored for most Florida felons as of Tuesday. The Florida Rights Restoration Coalition planned to get people together over breakfast before registering online or going to their local election supervisors' offices to fill out the forms. On 25 May 2018, the country approved the changes by 66% to 34%, just a touch above the margin at the Grand Hotel in Miami. But is it the Florida voters’ passage of Amendment 4, a voter-approved measure that restores voting rights to up to 1.5 million mostly black felons, that is proving a racial hot potato?

Claim: "In 1935, more than 50% of the elderly population lived in poverty. Today that poverty rate stands officially at 9.4%."
Evidence Summary: Frontier Economics report does not even acknowledge that pensioner poverty is on the rise again. Over‑75s are almost 50% more likely to be in poverty than the 65-75 age group. One in every four of the over-75s is eligible for pension credit because their income is so low. As the fee rises towards £160, and then £170, that poverty will become worse, writes Nayuka Gorrie. In the year 1980, approximately one-half of the population on the planet lived in ‘extreme poverty’

Claim: "In his book, (Ken) Cuccinelli questions whether Medicare and Social Security should exist."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. The popularity of Medicare for all soars when people hear it would guarantee health insurance as a right. But it becomes a political loser if people think it would lead to treatment delays. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government- run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like "Medicare for all"

Claim: "The Senate health care bill ""would leave 24 million people without insurance coverage."""
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The U.S. is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half."
Evidence Summary: The thinktank accepted donations from Philip Morris Singapore, Philip Morris Malaysia and Japan Tobacco International alongside money from the American, British and Canadian governments. The proposal to increase taxes was dropped after just 10 days. But Ideas continued to advocate against tax hikes for months afterward, issuing statements, opinion pieces and two lengthy reports which used data paid for by tobacco companies. “The obvious question is: why the sudden keen interest in tobacco control?” said Mary Assunta, senior policy adviser for the Southeast Asia Tobacco Control Alliance.

Claim: "Between 1980 and 2010, water usage in Georgia dropped even as the states population grew."
Evidence Summary: With shrinking glaciers, less water will be available for nearby river systems when rainfall is low. In some parts of the world, millions of people could lose their primary water supplies. In the Pacific north-west US, if glaciers melted entirely, that could reduce the flow of certain watersheds by up to about 15% in dry months of August and September. “So every farmer needs to think about his money, so if tomorrow we don’t have this water, what will we do,” farmer says.

Claim: "The General Assembly has no explicit constitutional authority to impose income, sales, estate and the myriad of other taxes upon us."
Evidence Summary: “Now is the time to work towards a new set of rules,” says the governor. “It’s time for a new way of doing things.” “We’re going to have to work together to find a way to make this happen,’ he says. � “I don’t think we’ve seen the last of it.’ ““I’m looking forward to the day when we can say that we did it, and that it was the right thing to do, and not the wrong thing”

Claim: A Wisconsin bill to limit use of food stamps for junk food would also prevent -- or limit -- the extent to which food stamps could be used for organic foods.
Evidence Summary: Food assistance, commonly known as food stamps, is one of the federal government's most responsive antipoverty programs. Suspending benefits, which is what would apparently happen if the shutdown continues past March, would have serious economic consequences. Some people who receive food stamps said they were worried they would have less money to buy healthy food if they only received a percentage of their usual benefits. The program, which has 38 million participants nationwide, has been funded through February thanks to a temporary workaround in the budget bill.

Claim: "Since ObamaCare and the stimulus passed, the unemployment rate in the U.S. has increased."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "In 2011, there were more than 28,000 new Tennessee jobs created and over $4 billion in capital investment. Our Jobs4TN plan is working."
Evidence Summary: Average monthly job creation for 2018 was 220,000. So far about 5m jobs have been created under Trump. It is pretty dubious to claim presidents ‘create’ jobs but they all take the credit when things are good. The current recovery clearly began under the previous president, Barack Obama. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being “the greatest jobs president that God ever created” Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms.

Claim: "Says she called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight early on in the financial crisis."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Maxine Waters is the new chairwoman of the House Financial Services Committee. Waters is a frequent critic of President Trump and his administration. She negotiated a massive mortgage settlement with big banks during the housing crisis. She has drawn attention for frequent votes against enforcement actions and calling on the SEC to moderate how it levies fines against companies and some individuals accused of wrongdoing.“I don’t want to be the next financial institution to mess up,” a Washington policy analyst said.

Claim: "The Obama administration originally wanted 10,000 troops to remain in Iraq -- not combat troops, but military advisers, special operations forces, to watch the counterterrorism effort."
Evidence Summary: U.S. troops were among the dead after a bombing attack in northern Syria that was claimed by the Islamic State. President Barack Obama sent American troops to Syria in 2015 as part of a coalition against ISIS. The United States has around 2,000 military personnel in Syria, where they have supported Kurdish militia forces in retaking territory seized by ISIS. "We've got to ensure that ISIS is destroyed. Because if you walk away before they're destroyed, then they have the ability to create safe havens to launch attacks against us again," Vice President Mike Pence said.

Claim: "Says former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said that if the workers are more insecure, thats very healthy for the society because theyll serve the masters gladly and passively."
Evidence Summary: For my generation, we’re working harder than ever, for less and less. A generation that detests the status quo and fails to see how the financial industry works. I worry that our representatives, on both sides of the aisle, are so removed from the reality of working-class life that they fail to see, and fail to understand, the true driving forces of working people’s discontent. The folks who created all those new jobs last month, on the other hand, have put their very livelihoods at stake.

Claim: "Barack Obama's health care plan ""would leave 15-million Americans out."""
Evidence Summary: Survey finds broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage.

Claim: "Say Ohio Reps. Marcia Fudge, Marcy Kaptur and Dennis Kucinich are socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress."
Evidence Summary: The term “Democratic Socialist’ was only broadly popularized with the 2016 presidential run of Bernie Sanders, who identifies as one. Two more Democratic Socialists will join Sanders in Congress on Thursday -- Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Rashida Tlaib. The growing support marks an astonishing rise for socialist-leaning policies in just a few years, and reflects a shift in the party itself. A stunning Gallup poll last summer showed Democrats view socialism more positively than capitalism.

Claim: "Says the Defense Department shrink-wrapped $10.8 billion in American money, loaded it on 175 pallets and put it on a transport plane to Iraq where they passed out $100 bills and no one has any receipts."
Evidence Summary: Trump claims the U.S. spends more in one month in Afghanistan than the $5.6 billion figure he’s demanding for a southern border wall in the ongoing shutdown fight. The prospect of Trump's confiscating money designated for other projects has some prominent congressional Republicans worried. "I do not think it's a good idea," the ranking Republican on the House Armed Services Committee told MSNBC. "There are real needs today with barracks, and maintenance facilities and all sorts of military construction projects that are important for national security," said Rep. Mac Thornberry of Texas.

Claim: "Floridas proposed amendment for medical marijuana would allow people who alleged minor ailments such as muscle spasms, neck pain, back pain and even menstrual cramps (to qualify) for government-sanctioned pot-smoking."
Evidence Summary: Since 2015, the state has been allowing sales of marijuana to patients who qualify with any of about 40 specified serious medical conditions. Critics have opposed any broad expansion of the program, because they want to avoid easy availability for anyone claiming an ache or pain. At least eight lawsuits are pending to expand the conditions for which medical marijuana would be allowed under the state’s existing program. Chief among them is intractable pain, which the courts have already ordered to be added as a qualifying malady.

Claim: "We, the bishops of the United States -- can you believe it -- in 1919 came out for more affordable, more comprehensive, more universal health care."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. In 2018, pollsters found 13.7% of Americans lacked health insurance, the highest levels since 2014. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The U.S. is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage.

Claim: "Says Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garlandvoted, so the folks know, in Washington, D.C., to keep guns away from private citizens."
Evidence Summary: New York State Rifle will be the first shot in a coming constitutional revolution, writes Julian Zelizer. Lower courts, now packed with pro-gun Trump nominees, will tear down restrictions on concealed and open carry, he says. Zelizer: A central premise of Heller and McDonald, that the Second Amendment protects handguns “in the home” will be cast aside. The issue of gun rights is contentious in the U.S., he says, but the NRA and gun rights activists have consistently resisted any major gun control measures.

Claim: "Forty years ago, hardly anybody in the country had health insurance."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years — and there’s still a health care worker shortage. 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. People in the Commonwealth Fund study who exhausted their savings because of illness face more financial hurdles as they approach Medicare age. Most households with workers nearing retirement won’t be able to maintain their living standard in retirement, professor says.

Claim: "For every Kentuckian that has enrolled in Obamacare, 40 have been dropped from their coverage."
Evidence Summary: 7.7 percent of Americans lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, according to a new survey. That's the highest uninsured rate since 2014, and it could signal a reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. The Gallup survey doesn't ask respondents why they don't have health insurance, but the report does point to several likely causes, including rising prices and policy changes made by President Donald Trump's administration and the Republican majority in Congress. In the latest sign of the law’s success, Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of voters.

Claim: "Says the money is in the budget to give a tax break to everyone, including people making more than $1 million."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Ocasio-Cortez said. He outlined a key component of his platform: a universal basic income of $1,000 per month for all Americans 18 and older, funded by a value-added tax. The proposal also includes a job-guarantee program offering “a living wage job to every person who wants one;” a “just transition” for workers affected by climate change; universal health care and more.

Claim: On the status of illegal immigrants
Evidence Summary: The fight over the wall raises the same specter of expansive state power that can be marshaled against vulnerable political minorities. Like Muslim visitors, refugees and other migrants from Central and South America have been demonized as a group for the actions of a few. How many more people in our country – like police officer Ronil Singh and Kate Steinle – must be tragically killed by illegal immigrants before politicians on Capitol Hill finally take action? The United States cannot be seen as providing a pass to those who come here unlawfully.

Claim: "The average time someone used to hold a share of stock back in the 60s was eight years. Now, the average time is four months."
Evidence Summary: After 19 years covering the stock market for USA TODAY, Adam Shell is retiring. In his final column, Shell shares what he's learned about the market and personal finance. Shell: In a two-decade run as a stock market reporter, “the market” has been my friend, but also an enemy. The best lessons I learned about investing came when stocks were going down. The market can drop 50 percent in any given year. At the bottom, you think they're going to last forever.

Claim: "Since 1904, the Ohio victor has won the presidency 25 out of 27 times"
Evidence Summary: Trump misstates the Electoral College vote in his 2016 presidential race against Democrat Hillary Clinton. Presidents often get credit for things they have only passing responsibility for. From a conservative perspective, the president had fewer wins in his sophomore years. So they have every right to crow about great employment numbers and the like. But there’s no reason to expect differently from this White House. The president has given us every reason to believe that things could get even worse. — Ellis Cose, fellow, University of California National Center for Free Speech and Civic Engagement, @EllisCose.

Claim: "Under Obamacare, members of Congress are required to purchase their health insurance from the new exchanges."
Evidence Summary: In early 2017, I offered advice to incoming Trump administration officials on how they ought to handle health care. I suggested proceeding incrementally and continuing to expand access to care and preexisting condition protections. Instead, Donald Trump consumed much of his first year as president on an ill-conceived adventure to repeal the Affordable Care Act without a plan for anything better. Democrats will need to quickly introduce bills that reinforce the ACA’s original protections and prevent the Trump administration from weakening it further.

Claim: "While fat-cat bureaucrats at the Department of Education are getting paid an average salary of $102,000 a year, teachers in Georgia are getting paid half of that."
Evidence Summary: The gap between what teachers and private-sector employees earn has widened considerably since the mid-1990s. This so-called teacher wage penalty, which stood at 1.8 percent in 1994, reached a record 18.7 percent in 2017. In a national USA TODAY/Ipsos Poll last September, Americans by a similar 59 percent to 34 percent said teachers weren't paid what they're worth. Nearly four in 10 teachers say they had worked a second job over the past year to make ends meet.

Claim: "Floridas high school graduation rates continue to increase at the fastest rate in the nation, with Florida leading the nation in the rate of Hispanic graduates."
Evidence Summary: Carole Carlson: For critics concerned about CSU’s “graduation rate,’ I suggest: Lobby Congress to revise the federal formula for determining graduation rates. Carlson: High school graduation rates, test scores, and school funding have all been moving modestly upwards over the lifetime of the economic boom that has followed the 2008 recession. Researchers point to two potentially promising areas. One is to use schools in poorer neighborhoods as hubs for social services provided to the population as a whole.

Claim: "For [GM] to pay back everything it owes, it would have to sell its shares at $143 a share . . . where the highest value of a General Motors share ever was $43, $44, $46, whatever the dollars were . . ."
Evidence Summary: GM President Mark Reuss said GM’s restructuring is driven by many factors - including the need to offset tariff costs and finance new electric vehicles and battery technology. That requires GM to stop “investing money in things that don’t make money.” It is a message Barra herself hit hard on Friday during a presentation to investors in New York, where she promised stronger profits and outlined plans for its Cadillac brand to challenge Tesla Inc. The company surprised Wall Street on Friday by upping its estimated 2019 profits, despite concerns about the global economy and the Chinese vehicle market.

Claim: "Theres 21 congressmen and senators that have been convicted of felonies that still get their retirement, even in jail. They dont have to wait until theyre 65."
Evidence Summary: After Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s signature performance this week, it may be time for the members of Congress who still don’t “get it” to do America a favor and just retire already. I’m all for people continuing to contribute, and I certainly view life as a marathon, not a sprint. I am reaching my mid-70s, Dennis Skinner continues to make his strident comments at the age of 86, and Jeremy Corbyn will be well into his 70s at the next general election.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney said at a January 2012 debate that under Paul Ryans tax plan, Id have paid no taxes in the last two years."
Evidence Summary: Romney told a tech summit in Utah in June he thinks Trump will “solidly’ win re-election in 2020. Romney spent the bulk of his business career at a firm called Bain Capital. His piece throws a rare compliment to Trump for cutting the corporate rate a year ago. Despite the criticism, Romney got this shoutout from departing Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz): "Very pleased GOP Senator-elect Mitt Romney is speaking some truth about @realDonaldTrump" He also got a shout out from Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif), who was actually hoping he’d avoid becoming like Flake.

Claim: "House Republicans pledged to introduce a bill to reform Americas health care system, but ""the 'party of no' has . . . failed to produce legislation."""
Evidence Summary: Americans want to see legislation passed by both parties so it can stand the test of time. Democrats are in the majority now, which means they can convene committee hearings, craft legislation and even put it to a vote. The midterms were a call to action on health care. Democrats and Republicans have deep disagreements, but progress is possible and they should try. The status quo is a win for no one, and yet Democrats so far are putting forward all sorts of campaign finance legislation, not health care fixes.

Claim: "Polls show Americans are overwhelmingly opposed to Obamacare, especially the individual mandate."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. The popularity of Medicare for all soars when people hear it would guarantee health insurance as a right and plunges when the public thinks it would lead to treatment delays. A slight majority – 56 percent – surveyed by Kaiser backed the idea of all Americans getting insurance from a single government plan. The survey found majority support for more incremental moves to a nationalized system: 77 percent – including 69 percent of Republicans – favor allowing people to buy health insurance through Medicare once they turn 50.

Claim: "In Texas, we teach both creationism and evolution in our public schools."
Evidence Summary: Republican state Sen. Dennis Kruse's bill seeks to place a poster reading "In God We Trust" in every public and charter school classroom in Indiana. The bill would also allow public schools to teach creationism and offer a survey course on world religions. Curriculum for the survey course must be “neutral, objective and balanced” and not “promote acceptance of any particular religion,” according to the legislation. The same day the letters were sent, Ham offered free admission to any public schools that take students on field trips to the Ark Encounter and Creation Museum.

Claim: "Portland Public Schools invites well-paid, well-fed school bureaucrats, administrators, teachers, other staff, non-needy students, affluent parents of students, and other adults, including on the other extreme the adult homeless, illegal aliens, fanatical Muslim terrorists, or drug addicted street people, to enjoy cheap breakfasts in taxpayer-paid school facilities amidst school children."
Evidence Summary: School is "a place of stability," says principal of Ninth Street School. Teachers are asking for more counselors and nurses at schools, among other demands. More than 80% of district students are poor enough to qualify for free breakfast and lunch. If they don’t come to school for those meals, it’s unclear if they can afford to eat at all, he says. The union has offered to act as a mediator, but the school district has rebuffed it.

Claim: "Among manufacturers with fewer than 50 employees, the average cost in terms of regulations is $34,000 per employee."
Evidence Summary: $19 million to mitigate excess emissions from more than 13,000 of the noncompliant vehicles in California. $280 million as a proposed settlement resulting from a class-action lawsuit filed by owners. Attorneys and lawyers in the S.E.C. can make more than $200,000 per year. Engineers make up much of NASA staff. They typically make around $130,000 a year. $110 million owed to 13,972 workers at the E.P.A.

Claim: "The health care bill will ""create 4 million jobs, 400,000 jobs almost immediately."""
Evidence Summary: Washington's governor is proposing creation of a public option, a state insurance plan residents can buy into. New York City's mayor is proposing measures that would, he says, guarantee coverage for all New Yorkers, including undocumented immigrants. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., has floated her own proposals, planning to introduce an expansive Green New Deal plan in the coming days. Over 4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump took office, with the lowest unemployment in half a century and earnings rising at the fastest rate in a decade.

Claim: "Says pension contributions under Gov. Chris Christie would represent 75 percent of the total contribution made between the years 1995 and 2010. Thats right, in 15 years, total state contribution was only $2.1 billion."
Evidence Summary: Lawmakers gave themselves an extra special benefit allowing them to hoard pension “spikes” After serving 20 years in office or turning age 55, whichever came later, they could bank an additional 3 percent boost to their eventual pensions each year. The state’s unfunded pension liability is also growing, reaching $133.5 billion in fiscal 2018 from $129 billion at the end of fiscal 2017. Teachers are preparing to strike in Los Angeles on Jan. 14, where the union is pushing for higher salaries and more hiring despite warnings from the LA County Office of Education.

Claim: "I balanced the budget for four straight years, paid off $405 billion in debt."
Evidence Summary: Sunday marks the second anniversary of President Trump's inauguration. At the midpoint of his four-year term, Trump has already delivered on some of his campaign promises. Other pledges have been all but ignored, like his promise to lead a $1 trillion infrastructure push. With many of Trump's promises, however, the record is somewhere in between — not exactly "mission accomplished," but not "mission forgotten" Either way, the U.S. has become accustomed to daily mortifications under the Trump presidency.

Claim: We have my opponent Sam Olens to thank for [the Arizona immigration ruling] since he was on the team that got Clinton elected.
Evidence Summary: Sen. Steve Daines, R-Mont., tried to get Dillingham to weigh in, saying that citizens in “Montana should have more of a say in Washington, D.C., than illegal immigrants harboring in sanctuary cities across the country” But the nominee responded: “I have no plans to voice an opinion on that question.” It’s time to put country ahead of party, and history is counting on nothing less, says Grant Woods.

Claim: "A majority of Americans since Harry Truman days support single-payer health insurance, or full Medicare for all."
Evidence Summary: A new poll from the Kaiser Family Foundation shows how Americans feel about proposals to expand government-run health programs. While a majority supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS], called Medicare-for-all, large majorities on both sides supported “buy-ins” to existing government- run health plans. Two-thirds of Republicans and wide margins of Democrats and independents supported the proposals. But once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government-ran insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea.

Claim: "Says Ohio Gov. John Kasich had the worst rating on spending of any governor in the country, Republican or Democrat."
Evidence Summary: Kasich signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. The former Ohio governor wrote an op-ed for the Boston Globe to commemorate Martin Luther King Jr. Day. He decried the political division that led to the ongoing government shutdown and called upon Americans to take personal action to better their communities. "Instead of sitting around worrying about what’s broken and not working in Washington, we’ve got to get off the couch," he said.

Claim: "Almost 400 arrests in the city last year for panhandling-related offenses involved just 78 suspects, an indication that the same people are panhandling over and over."
Evidence Summary: The NYPD’s adoption of “broken windows” policing in the 1990s resulted in a ferocious crackdown on minor crimes, and a vast increase in the number of incarcerated people in New York. The theory advocated for cracking down militantly on misdemeanors, from turnstile jumping to panhandling, which would supposedly lead to a drop in serious crimes. The number of traffic stops more than tripled, rising from 85,965 in 2015 to 187,133 in 2016, then jumping to 285,067 in 2017.

Claim: "Pending a federal waiver, the 2013 Legislature eliminated the overtesting of students in grades 3-8 by decreasing the number of tests from 17 to 8."
Evidence Summary: Test-optional policies would provide an alternative for the thousands of other students whose standardized scores are called into question every year. Rather than putting the onus on the testing bodies to prove that students cheated, it requires students to prove they didn't. Abby Kuhnell, a high school senior in Walton, Kentucky, received a letter from ACT in August 2018 invalidating scores from tests she had taken in December 2017 and March 2018. The orders hold major implications for teacher evaluations that were more closely linked to student test scores under preceding Republican governor.

Claim: (T)he United States government and its Constitution says that people can be put to death.
Evidence Summary: In a matter of four months, three people have been executed, two by electrocution. Three more executions are scheduled in 2019, and another three in 2020. Six in 42 years; nine in less than three years. A Supreme People’s Court judge in December made a rare defense of the death penalty, saying that China could not abolish the system for fear of angering a public that overwhelmingly supports its use. The death penalty goes against the teachings of Jesus and the totality of Scripture.

Claim: "Obama spokesman Bill Burton says Clinton gave Bush ""a blank check on a critical foreign policy issue."""
Evidence Summary: Obama's remarks do not support Trump's proposal for a border wall, which the former president has criticized. Obama was asking Congress to approve an emergency appropriation to deal with the surge. Pompeo said that the U.S. was "timid" about "asserting ourselves when the times — and our partners — demanded it" A spokesman for former President George H.W. Bush declined to comment, saying it was too soon for Bush, who died in November, to be "dragged into such debates"

Claim: "A law was passed, apparently in the Clinton administration, about whether, in recruiting offices Marines or other military should be able to have guns. Apparently it is prohibited."
Evidence Summary: As attorney general, Harris defended an “archaic’ law which banned firearms dealers from displaying advertisements visible from outside the stores that included a photo of a handgun. Harris declined to charge Steven Mnuchin, now President Trump’s treasury secretary, for allegedly violating state foreclosure laws when he ran OneWest bank. Under his leadership, the bank foreclosed on more than 36,000 homes. Harris said her office “followed the facts and the evidence” and “pursued it just like any other case”

Claim: "Stimulus money funded a government board that made recommendations that would cost 378,000 jobs and $28.3 billion in sales."
Evidence Summary: The NSF hasn’t divvied out a single dollar in grant money since the shutdown began Dec. 22. During the same time period a year ago, the federal agency awarded nearly 400 research grants valued at $121.9 million. President Donald Trump’s demand that Congress fork over $5.7 billion for a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border has left some 800,000 federal workers without pay. The impact on science is a slow strangling of the American scientific enterprise, an expert says.

Claim: "In the last 10 years, only one piece of legislation has been cosponsored and passed by John Duncan Jr."
Evidence Summary: The bill is co-sponsored by Reps. Mike Thompson, D-Calif., and Peter King, R-N.Y. It includes four additional original GOP co-sponsors: Reps. Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, Fred Upton of Michigan, Chris Smith of New Jersey and Brian Mast of Florida. "When background checks are used, they keep guns out of the hands of people we all agree shouldn't have guns," said King. "We will continue our fight and we will deliver," said Thompson.

Claim: "There are cities and counties in Georgia that dont have websites, and where elected officials dont have email addresses."
Evidence Summary: Yera Moye, who is ringing up customers said she didn’t know exactly why. The county administrator tried to put the implication of the shutdown in Wayne county’s perspective. “My county, if you look at it, is very rural,” Ed Jeffords explained, pointing to a map across from his desk.“The only responsibility DeSantis has right now is to direct state agencies without delay to register voters consistent with state law.”

Claim: I never was in favor of shutting down the government. (I) voted to fund the government fully.
Evidence Summary: Paul Gauthier: The reason we have a shutdown is -- let's go back to December. In December, the then-Republican House passed funding for the entire federal government. When it got to the Senate, Chuck Schumer and the Democrats filibustered that bill, he says. He says there is no reason to keep the much of government shut down over a completely political issue. Gauthie: I disagree with President Trump’s actions and his belief that we need a wall. The government must reopen to continue the debate.

Claim: "The Confederate battle flag never flew over Texas, but... you might soon see it on our license plates."
Evidence Summary: State Rep. Eric Johnson tweeted a photo of the blank wall where the plaque was once displayed. Johnson, a Dallas Democrat, has long pushed the state to remove the plaque. The plaque was made by the Children of the Confederacy and was first hung in the Capitol in 1959. Almost 154 years after the end of the Civil War, the country is still quarreling — in state capitols and courtrooms, on college campuses and around town squares — over how, or whether, to commemorate the side that lost.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney backed a bill that outlaws all abortions, even in cases of rape and incest."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has shown a willingness to subordinate principle to self-interest. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. So was Romney, as he moved from running for office in liberal Massachusetts to establishing his conservative bona fides with national Republicans. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. The win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump.

Claim: "In the last three years alone, 13 times, the Supreme Court, unanimously, 9-0, including all of the presidents liberal picks, have struck down the presidents executive orders."
Evidence Summary: Liberal lawyers have scoured the country for the most anti-Trump judges, writes Julian Zelizer. Zelizer: Activist judges have ignored the law to help liberal special interest groups delay and frustrate even routine presidential actions. He says there are growing signs that Chief Justice Roberts has had a bellyful of Trump’s antics, and that he is looking to salvage the reputation of government that retains a semblance of legitimacy, Zelizer says. The culture of close judicial review of executive action in wartime has diminished, he says.

Claim: "In Libya, America spent $2 billion total and didnt lose a single life."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has spent more than $130 billion in aid to Afghanistan, including $80 billion to train and equip its security forces. Afghan government forces control barely half the country, with the Taliban insurgents currently controlling or contesting more territory than at any time since 2001. The costs of Afghanistan were significant, but not on anything like that scale. This year's projected cost, before the pullout was announced, was $1.35 billion, a fraction of the $45 billion spent annually in Afghanistan.

Claim: "Right now, Texas doesnt have an income tax and Oklahomas lowering their income tax rates, and guess what their severance tax is? Sky high."
Evidence Summary: In Illinois, 76 percent of respondents to a Paul Simon Public Policy Institute poll expressed support for an extra 3-percent tax on income over $1 million. Conservatives have pushed down top marginal tax rates and expressed nonchalance about the subsequent massive growth in the wage gap. They’ve done this in part by branding high marginal rates as socialism and peddling the falsehood — to children, no less! — that the rates apply to every dollar earned. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few."

Claim: "Sarah Palin ""has had 12 years of elected office experience."""
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) slammed as “resentful’ a Washington Post op-ed that compared her to former presidential candidate Sarah Palin. “Naturally, the same week we kick-start a nat’l convo on marginal tax rates endorsed by Nobel-Prize winning economists, I’m being described as ‘vacuous,’” she tweeted on Tuesday. The piece opens by saying that the new congresswoman “has already gotten more publicity than she deserves” and that the “former bartender is a person of little significance”

Claim: "DEP has 2,812 employees, the lowest level since the mid-80s."
Evidence Summary: "Morale is not very good, and it’s tough to bring that back. ...This should be down time, so this is not a good deal at all," Gariepy said. Melvina Barnes, a reintegration and re-entry officer at the prison who lives in Jesup, said she has just $278 dollars left in her bank account. "I feel extremely let down by the people in charge that this is suddenly my burden to bear," she said.

Claim: "If your plan is the result of collective bargaining, no subsequent changes by anybody -- insurance companies, Obamacare -- can force your grandfathered policy to change."
Evidence Summary: "The focus really has to be on trying to prevent the sabotage and making sure the ACA is strengthened," Pallone said. That "sabotage" includes Trump's decision to stop reimbursing insurance companies for discounts they're required by law to give to their lowest-income clients. He also cited a Department of Health and Human Service's rule change that allows insurance policies that don't carry the full benefits required by the ACA to be renewed for up to three years. Pallone: "I think if you do some good oversight and find out what the sabotage consists of, then you can say, 'Well this isn't allowed under the law'

Claim: "When I left office, there was a $7-million surplus in Providence, but in 2008, the city had a $110-million deficit."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom inherited a $28 billion deficit and a $14 billion surplus. He also created an $18 billion so-called rainy day fund to help the state get through what is widely viewed as an inevitable coming recession. Mr. Newsom’s agenda is likely to be costly, and thus likely to face obstacles as the new governor prepares to offer a new budget. This is not a blip or an outlier or the impact of a recession that ended 10 years ago; this is the result of decades of government mismanagement.

Claim: "This year, the federal government will have more revenue than any year in the history of our country."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies" "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he adds. "The government really needs to get together and work this out" "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he argues.

Claim: "If you count United States airstrikes against ISIS, 75 percent of those combat missions return to base without having fired a weapon."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. moved some equipment out of Syria, but no troops, two officials told ABC News. Despite Trump's declaration of victory over ISIS, State Department and Pentagon officials had cautioned that the fight was not over. The Kurdish fighters who spoke to D'Agata in northern Syria are not only concerned that the withdrawal of U.s. troops could enable an ISIS comeback, but that Turkish forces will go on the attack the moment the last American soldier leaves. The Americans provide not only tactics, weapons and equipment, but crucially they also direct airstrikes against ISIS targets.

Claim: "Says that as a U.S. senator, Scott Brown delivered for Wall Street, saving big banks $19 billion in taxes."
Evidence Summary: Not since 2008 have donors in the securities and investment industry given a higher percentage to Democratic candidates and committees than to Republicans. The Democrats’ moneyed interests don’t want more powerful labor unions. They are not in favor of stronger antitrust enforcement against large corporations. They resist firmer regulation of Wall Street.“We are in this fight together, all the way,” she said. “Our government systematically favors the rich over the poor, the donor class over the working class, the well-connected over the disconnected.”

Claim: "The fact is, over 2.4 million jobs have been lost since the Stimulus bill was signed into law in February of 2009."
Evidence Summary: The government reported Friday that the economy created 312,000 jobs in December. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon, saying the "tremendous" jobs number was partly due to companies such as auto manufacturers repatriating to the U.S.

Claim: "If African-Americans vote their percentage of the population in 2008, ""Mississippi is suddenly a Democratic state."""
Evidence Summary: South Carolina hosts the third contest in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary calendar. It will also be an important test of which candidates can appeal to a key constituency in the Democratic Party. In 2016, black voters made up roughly 60 percent of the South Carolina Democratic primary vote. For Democrats to reclaim the White House in 2020, they'll need overwhelming support from black voters, who helped drive Obama to victory in 2008 and 2012 and whose tepid support for Hillary Clinton contributed to her narrow losses in several key Midwestern swing states.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton surged the trade deficit with China 40% as Secretary of State, costing Americans millions of jobs."
Evidence Summary: Last year was the best year for American manufacturing job growth since 1997 -- since before China joined the World Trade Organization. The trade policy backed by all the Trump-haters in Washington helped destroy close to 4 million manufacturing jobs. It's stupid to worry about the trade deficit, say the geniuses in the establishment, when Donald Trump describes it as a problem that needs to be tackled. Trump's critics -- all of them -- meekly went along with the establishment's humiliating China swoon.

Claim: "ISISsends out 90,000 social (media)messages a day."
Evidence Summary: Hackers are exploiting an old flaw to hijack dormant Twitter accounts to spread ISIS propaganda. A scientist is now facing the death penalty in Iraq as one of the few alive individuals associated with the group’s chemical weapons program. Facebook removed 364 Facebook Pages and accounts that originated in Russian but operated across the Baltics, Central Asia, the Caucasus and Central and Eastern Europe. The pages had a total of about 790,000 followers, and about $135,000 was spent on ads on Facebook.

Claim: The federal government right now does not deport criminals.
Evidence Summary: Immigration and Customs Enforcement deported about 95,000 people from the interior of the United States last year. Only in his final two years in office did Obama register numbers lower than Trump’s. Each ill-planned and legally dubious move the Trump administration makes to change the enforcement system clogs up some part of the federal bureaucracy. The federal government is responsible for enforcing immigration law, so no one truly wants the federal government to shut down because that would further jam up a complex enforcement system.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton said all work-related emails were sent back to the State Department. The FBI director said, thats not true."
Evidence Summary: Buzzfeed News reported Thursday that President Trump told Michael Cohen to lie to Congress about a potential real-estate deal in Moscow. The article prompted Democrats to call for Trump's impeachment if it turned out to be true. But Mueller issued his first public statement in more than a year to repudiate the BuzzFeed report just one day later, asserting in a brief statement that BuzzFeed's story was "not accurate" Trump had been obliged to state that he “never worked for Russia” following two reports that he may have been used as an asset by Moscow.

Claim: "When you look at what we have done over the last decade, we created 1 million jobs in the state of Texas. At the same time, (the rest of) America lost 2.5 million."
Evidence Summary: President Trump said the shutdown is hurting African-Americans and Hispanic Americans. Julian Zelizer says the president is right to toot his own horns during good economic times. He says the upward trajectory of black, Hispanic and every other group’s employment rates has continued. Zelizer: Trump's highlighting unemployed black and Hispanic workers as victims of illegal immigration unfortunately suggests a new version of an old sneaky divide-and-conquer political tactic: Turn one disadvantaged group against another through half-truths and stereotypes.

Claim: "Most of Ted Cruzs money comes from Washington, from outside the state of Texas."
Evidence Summary: U.S. Rep. Beto O’Rourke, D-Texas, lost to Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas. The Democrat spent nearly $80 million in a bid to defeat the incumbent Republican. He drew criticism for refusing to share his war chest with other Democrats in other states, who had better chances of winning. O'Rourke’s love for El Paso was also called into question over his support of a real estate deal in the town during his rocky tenure on the El Paso City Council.

Claim: "In 1992, Mitt Romney gave money to Democrats for Congress."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote in the Washington Post that Trump's most glaring failure has been his inability to unite a "nation so divided, resentful and angry" Romney was happy to accept Trump’s endorsements during his presidential run in 2012 and in his race for the Senate last year. In between those two endorsements, Romney blasted Trump as “a phony, a fraud” Yet just as soon as Trump won the presidency, Romney opportunistically changed his tune, prostrating himself before the president-elect in a desperate attempt to be named secretary of state.

Claim: "AIG executives ... (took) a junket for over $400,000. Twice."
Evidence Summary: The automotive industry isn't immune, Hayashi said. “It included one of the spies that the Office of Strategic Services — the predecessor to the CIA — used during World War II in China," he said. More and more, “sad to say,” nongovernmental organizations are included too — “the CIA may try to slip somebody in there” The private-jet start-up was offering Galvez its top-of-the-line "sophisticated membership," which included unlimited, free private jet flights and the chance to bring a guest.

Claim: "Obama ... gave almost a million dollars to the (Kenya) opposition campaign who just happened to be his cousin, Raila Odinga."
Evidence Summary: George Weah has been attacked for the personal nature of public infrastructure projects. He ordered the re-roofing of more than 200 houses in Monrovia's Gibraltar slum. A memo to the finance ministry ordering the transfer of nearly $1m in official funds to cover the costs was leaked to the media. A gay rights activist who donated almost $70,000 of his own money to former President Barack Obama’s campaign was charged with sexual abuse in 2014. He was released Thursday and told KGW8 he was “innocent”

Claim: Says he saw videotape of the people taking the money off the plane to pay ransom to Iran for hostages.
Evidence Summary: Iran's foreign minister told CBS News last April that Iran is open to a prisoner swap, calling it a "possibility, certainly from a humanitarian perspective" President Trump has vowed not to broker the type of deal that President Obama greenlit in 2016, which unfroze Iranian assets and freed four Americans, including Washington Post journalist Jason Rezaian. "I didn't do what Obama did, give them $1.8 billion in cash to get back four hostages," Mr. Trump said in a United Nations address last September.

Claim: Theres pretty much no question that [the curfew ordinances] arent effective in either reducing crime or preventing harm to young people.
Evidence Summary: Laitila council insists that the curfew enjoys broad support in the town of about 8,000 people. Town officials recommend that children aged 7-13 should be home by 1930 on a school night. Older school pupils ought not to stay out later than 2100, they say. The plan resembles a 1997 curfew in Iceland credited with drastically cutting underage drink and drugs problems in that country. But the experience has not been entirely positive, with some Finns not convinced about the curfew, which is "informal"

Claim: "Jeff Merkley was the deciding vote on Obamacare, which in Oregon has been an unmitigated disaster."
Evidence Summary: “The people of CA ― folks in Paradise ― should not be victims to partisan bickering. We have been put in office by the voters to get things done, not to play games with lives,” Newsom wrote. Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state’s voters. Republicans can use the results of the election as an opportunity to officially cede the ground they have already really lost: that preexisting condition protections and the ACA are here to stay.

Claim: "The new beverage tax will increase the cost of sodas, juice drinks, sports drinks, iced teas, and flavored water up to 50%."
Evidence Summary: Qatari officials have said that alcohol consumption would be more restricted than in other World Cups. The tax increase seemed to be part of a push to clamp down on “health-damaging goods,” according to a statement released last month by the Ministry of Finance. The new tax will increase the price of sugary drinks by half. The price of tobacco, alcohol, energy drinks and pork will double, Walid Zidani, an employee of the ministry, said by phone on Tuesday.

Claim: "Legal prescription drugs statistically kill 100,000 people a year, (but) there are no documented deaths due to marijuana."
Evidence Summary: Philando Castile, Michael Brown, Keith Lamont Scott and others were killed by police who used the bogus defense. A new book cites that report and other research in sounding an alarm about the swift and radical change that has seen recreational marijuana legalized in 10 states, the District of Columbia and Canada since 2012. Psychiatrists and epidemiologists have reached a consensus that marijuana use presents more serious risks than most people realize. But the advocates don’t want to admit that fact either, so they are doing everything possible to obscure the plain fact that murders are up.

Claim: "The estate tax, which came into being by Republicans like Teddy Roosevelt and others ... is there for a real simple reason: In America, we've never liked the idea of massive inherited wealth."
Evidence Summary: AOC’s tax proposal finds inspiration not in Karl Marx, but in mainstream American political philosophy. Her plan can trace its intellectual lineage to John Rawls, the giant of American politics. Rawls’ 1971 classic, A Theory of Justice, defends a vision of liberal society that still appeals to most Americans. If people are born free and equal, why would we agree to live in an unequal society? AOC: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few"

Claim: "Every time the price of gasoline rises 1 cent, its abillion dollarsout of our economy that goes to Saudi Arabia."
Evidence Summary: Saudi Aramco CEO: "I don’t see peak [oil] demand happening in 10 years or even by 2040" Saudi Arabia announced it has 268.5 billion barrels of proven crude oil reserves, a figure 2.2 billion barrels higher than previously known. The kingdom is currently pumping about 10.5 million barrels of oil per day, down from 11 million in November. President Trump took to Twitter to thank Saudi Arabia for keeping oil prices low, saying it was "like a big Tax Cut for America and the World"

Claim: "I had to lay off 48 people last year, which has exacerbated the lack of law enforcement officers in the county that respond quickly to crime calls."
Evidence Summary: "I don't think it's a problem with the criminal justice system but it’s a societal problem that people do tolerate disorder and minor assaults on the police to an unacceptable extent," she said. She said the city needs to improve policing, but should spend more time getting at the root causes of violence. “We need to up the clearance rates. They’re abysmal, not just for homicides, but shootings, car jackings, all violent crime,” Joyce said.

Claim: "Today, the United States has, sadly, one of the lowest voter turnouts of any major country on earth."
Evidence Summary: “Most have yet to reach voting age, and their outlook could be altered considerably by changing national conditions, world events or technological innovations.” “It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing when you look at who is representing us”“Believe it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about”

Claim: "Rubio admitted he ""would have accepted the stimulus money."""
Evidence Summary: Romney refused to acknowledge his potential hypocrisy, saying he’d let the American people decide that. “I will let the people make the assessment of which things were mistakes and not,” he said. Romney told Tapper he would support Trump’s proposed border wall, but he wouldn’t say if he'd support the president”s re-election. ‘I haven’ts decided who I’m going to endorse in 2020. I going to wait and see what the alternatives are,’ Romney said.

Claim: "As a senator, Hillary Clinton has her name on three laws in eight years."
Evidence Summary: Harris was elected to the Senate two years ago. Prior to her Senate election, Harris served six years as California's attorney general and seven as San Francisco's district attorney. In October, ahead of last year's midterm elections, Harris traveled to Iowa to stump for Democratic candidates -- a visit widely viewed as the senator's first unofficial foray into the presidential campaign. She's used her perch on the Armed Services Committee to push for the repeal of the "don't ask, don't tell" policy that banned gay men and lesbians from serving.

Claim: "McCain is ""selectively editing Joe Biden's words...Biden actually said about Barack Obama: 'They're gonna find out this guy's got steel in his spine.'"""
Evidence Summary: Former Vice President Joe Biden spoke to the U.S. Conference of Mayors in Washington, D.C. He joked about criticism he's received for getting along with Republicans. But Biden's nostalgia for the bipartisan days of yore will crash headfirst into the hyperpartisan days of the present. He's already facing criticism for positions he held in the past that are now anathema to many Democratic voters, like his opposition to school integration in the 1970s. Even if Democrats can overlook “Joe being Joe” comments, they will be less forgiving with his voting record.

Claim: "Donald Trumps strategy is pretty simple. They have even said in his campaign its to get women to stay home, get young people to stay home, get people of color to stay home, and get a lot smart, intelligent men to stay home, too."
Evidence Summary: Trump has appeared to be influenced by Coulter before. But we should also remember that, for all his success using alternative means of political messaging, he remains a child of the TV age. Trump is a classic exemplar of the Dunning-Kruger Effect, named for two psychologists who demonstrated that the less knowledgeable and competent you are, the more you believe in your own superlative abilities. Even for a self-anointed “genius,” Trump’s range impresses.

Claim: "Ive cut taxes for ... middle-class families, small businesses."
Evidence Summary: The top rate for the rich in developed countries plunged from 62 percent in 1970 to 38 percent in 2013. In 2017, President Trump reduced tax rates for individuals and corporations, a decrease that favors the rich. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," O'Brien says. "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he adds. "The government really needs to get together and work this out"

Claim: "The gun epidemic is the leading cause of death of young African-American men, more than the next nine causes put together."
Evidence Summary: The weekend of Aug. 4, 2018, brought a stunning surge in gun violence to Chicago. A tally of 75 people hit by gunfire in 2 ½ days isn’t a crime statistic, it’s a catastrophe. Carmen Pagan, 41, became an advocate against gun violence after her brother was caught in the crossfire and shot to death three years ago. Her 13-year-old daughter designed a gun out of bullet casings on a canvas with the words: “Our zip codes define our life expectancy.”

Claim: "Under Obamacare, premiums have doubled and tripled in Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: High premiums for people who earn too much to qualify for federal tax credits have been a problem on the health insurance exchanges since they began for the 2014 enrollment period. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014, according to federal data. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced that average monthly premiums on Healthcare.gov will decrease for the first time in 2019 (by 1.5 percent), compared to the 36.9 percent and 25.4 percent increases the previous two years.

Claim: "Denies that he said the Obama campaign ""played the race card."""
Evidence Summary: Charles Blow and Scott Cortes clashed over whether or not it is right to call President Trump a racist. Romney refused to acknowledge his potential hypocrisy, saying he’d let the American people decide that. Obama often chose race-neutral language while pressing for health care, criminal justice and immigration reform. The decision to support gay marriage made some black Americans wonder why the president was not willing to take similar action on other issues, Michael Moore said. The White House told "60 Minutes" that "Ocasio-Cortez's sheer ignorance on the matter can't cover the fact that President Trump supported criminal justice reform and racism in all forms"

Claim: "Paul Ryans already spent millions to try and permanently derail Brad (Schneider)s progressive, energized campaign."
Evidence Summary: Underwood will be one of the co-chairs of the DCCC’s Frontline program, designed to defend the most vulnerable Democratic incumbents in the House. Democrats will target districts won by less than 5 percentage points and highlight those that flipped from red to blue. In some respects, the Democratic primary landscape appeared inviting for a candidate like Mr. Steyer, with his sterling credentials as a Trump antagonist and a virtually bottomless well of money to spend on advertising. He had conducted research into his own political vulnerabilities in anticipation of attacks from other Democrats in a rowdy primary.

Claim: "$50,000. Thats what every child owes today because Washington politicians have run up a huge spending tab and left our kids the bill."
Evidence Summary: "We need $7 billion to completely fund the schools, but unfortunately we can’t get it all at once,” Kifowit said. “The state is paying them in a timely matter ... not like when we had the general impasse and schools had to wait.” “I have two kids in junior high right now and one in high school, and think that education is important. We need the government to start focusing on our education," a parent said.

Claim: "As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton laundered money to Bill Clinton through Laureate Education, while Bill Clinton was an honorary chairman of the group."
Evidence Summary: Giuliani says there is no evidence that the president conspired with the Russians to hack the DNC. Waters has vowed to follow the “Trump money trail” starting with Deutsche Bank. The sordid list represents the crux of a well-orchestrated campaign by Goldman Sachs to discredit one of its former partners, Hillary Clinton. The rumor-mongering began when private emails of John Podesta, Clinton’s 2016 campaign manager, were stolen allegedly by Russian agents.

Claim: Says about NSA data collection: Every member in both parties who served on the Intelligence Committee voted in favor of this.
Evidence Summary: Democratic Rep. Debbie Dingell downplayed the notion that Tlaib’s provocative comments fuel GOP arguments that Democrats are focused on impeachment. House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., said in a Saturday statement that his committee would be digging into the items discussed in a Friday New York Times report. Separately on Sunday, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff said Democrats will "absolutely" investigate the report, despite Mueller's statement. The Republican-controlled committee voted down Schiff's motion to subpoena that interpreter last year.

Claim: "When you sanction the Iranian central bank, that will shut down (Irans) economy."
Evidence Summary: U.S. President Donald Trump last year pulled out of an international pact on Iran’s nuclear program and re-imposed sanctions. “The sanctions do put pressure on the country and the people,” Khamenei said, according to a transcript on his website of a speech in Tehran to commemorate an event from the 1979 revolution. ‘The Americans happily say that these sanctions are unprecedented in history. And the defeat that the Americans will face will be unprecedented, God willing,’ he added.

Claim: Says only 18 percent of Portland elementary schools have art instruction compared to 83 percent nationally.
Evidence Summary: Primary school-aged children in England have been suffering a shocking decline in the arts education they receive since 2010. The research, funded in part by the author and actor Ben Elton, found that a narrowing curriculum, pressure on school budgets and the demands of national tests were all contributing to the decline. The report Primary Colours, to be published on Friday, sets out steps to halt the decline, and suggests that government should support funding through an “arts premium” similar to that for PE.

Claim: "After Hurricane Katrina, Dallas and San Antonio took in 5,000 to 10,000 refugees each, but (Bill) White brought in 250,000 and put them up in his buddies empty apartment buildings and let the federal government pay their rents for over two years. They did not return to New Orleans, most of them are on welfare."
Evidence Summary: The president has misrepresented the people seeking admission to our country as part of his strategy of creating demons. The left needs to confront the dimensions of the issue: The numbers of people from around the world who have good cause to seek protection. The president and the nation need to stop throwing volleys at each other over the wall and instead enter into a meaningful conversation over the challenges presented to our nation by the many weary, frightened refugees seeking safety within our borders. The government bugs every phone. Perhaps a million Uyghurs — ten percent of the population — are held in prison-like re-education camps.

Claim: "If Gov. Rick Scott activates the National Guard in anticipation of a federal disaster, the states costs, including the costs to recall any furloughed guardsmen, will be fully reimbursable by FEMA."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump has restated his threat to declare a national emergency if Democrats refuse to cave to his demand for $5.7bn in funding for a border wall. The partial government shutdown enters a record-equalling 21st day with no end in sight. In today's podcast, Lauren Gambino and Bryan Mealer report on how Trump’s core campaign pledge to build a borderwall has led to this moment of political paralysis. And in Florida, Florida governor to consider pardons for Groveland Four.

Claim: "If you read the Arizona (immigration) law, what it says is if you are stopped for violating the law and they have a suspicion that you're illegal, they can ask you if you're legal."
Evidence Summary: ICE said Ramos-Gomez "repeatedly claimed to be a foreign citizen unlawfully present in the United States" ACLU attorney: "This is an individual who's incredibly vulnerable with a mental illness" ICE said its communications staff was not working during the government shutdown. The case highlights the issue of Latinos who are U.S. citizens being profiled by federal agents. The Free Press has reported how citizens who are Latinos are sometimes randomly stopped and interrogated by federal officials.. "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United. States undetected, undocumented, unchecked...” Barrack Obama, 2005," Trump wrote on Sunday, quoting the former president in 2005.

Claim: "Floridas proposed medical marijuana amendment would make Florida one of the most lenient medical-marijuana states, allowing use for limitless other conditions specified by any physician."
Evidence Summary: Since 2015, the state has been allowing sales of marijuana to patients who qualify with any of about 40 specified serious medical conditions. Critics have opposed any broad expansion of the program, because they want to avoid easy availability for anyone claiming an ache or pain. One of the pending lawsuits seeking to expand that list was filed by Chicago-area resident Ann Mednick, who said she suffers from osteoarthritis causing intractable pain, meaning it’s resistant to treatment. Mednick said she has no problem getting a prescription for tramadol, a highly addictive narcotic, but hates the side effects.

Claim: "President Obama budget request for veterans ismore than double the amount in constant dollars appropriated in 1980, when the veterans population was larger by a third."
Evidence Summary: The VA has been dogged by patient backlogs, ethical scandals and unsatisfactory performance. “These smaller groups don’t do policy advocacy while the Big Six have been carrying all the water,” said Kristofer Goldsmith, an assistant director for policy and government affairs at the Vietnam Veterans of America. From 2006 to 2016, the budget of the Veterans Hospital Administration grew from $38 billion to $91 billion. But it has failed to put that money to use in an efficient way.

Claim: "Today in America, 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we were 12 years ago, and this is the first time that that has happened this side of World War II."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he adds. "The same could be said of others around the world. And now many of the people who broke the progress machine are trying to sell us their services as repairmen’s" He adds: "While there are many historical and social reasons for people to be economically inactive, it's crucial that we tackle this issue head on."

Claim: "In Massachusetts, Gov. Romney narrowed the gap between students of different races."
Evidence Summary: Students for Fair Admissions is led by the conservative activist Edward Blum. Ananda Martin-Caughey applied to Harvard about a decade ago. She started to question the fairness of legacy policies. The case comes at such a time when the role of race in university admissions is being called into question.. Jonathan Zimmerman teaches education and history at the University of Pennsylvania. He is co-author of “The Case for Contention: Teaching Controversial Issues in American Schools.”

Claim: "Ive been a cop in Lake County, Michigan, since 1982 thereabout. I conduct federal raids with the DEA and ATF and U.S. Marshals and the FBI and Texas Rangers."
Evidence Summary: Reynolds was one of four finalists for the job, according to Oak Park Village Manager Cara Pavlicek. As candidates were narrowed down, candidates were interviewed by panels of community members, village staff, police union representatives and also some of the village’s younger residents. “One of the toughest interview panels I’ve ever seen was a group of four Oak Park and River Forest High School students,” Pavlicesk said. "That's what actually made him stand out, the day I did the interview with him, is his devotion for this profession," Richardson said.

Claim: "We spend more on health care than any other country, but we're ranked 47th in life expectancy and 43rd in child mortality."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world. This fact has perplexed international health advocates, such as the former UN secretary general Ban Ki Moon, who told the Guardian last fall the American health system is “morally wrong”

Claim: "Thanks to you, in under one week we have the largest GOP (Facebook) page in the Governor's race!"
Evidence Summary: Facebook is probing whether News for Democracy misled people about its origin. The organization ran ads targeting conservative voters in bids to help Texas Democratic Senate candidate Beto O’Rourke and hurt Tennessee Republican Senate candidate Marsha Blackburn. Facebook removed the pages associated with Kolfage’s websites in October as part of a crack down on “inauthentic behavior.” As of Friday, the censorship campaign has collected over 31,000 emails, a number dwarfed by 3.5 million signatures and emails he’ve collected with the campaign to build the wall.

Claim: "Says Ohio is one of just 17 states with an estate tax, and it has the lowest threshold in the nation."
Evidence Summary: There is no disputing a relationship between higher tax rates in states and lower net population migration. Blue states like Connecticut, Illinois and New York with higher taxes and a higher cost of living are losing residents or gaining population at very low rates. No-income-tax states such as Florida, Nevada, Texas and Washington have grown at double-digit rates this decade. Taxes are an imperative way to fund the necessities of living in a democracy. The less fortunate should be assisted through social service programs until they can get on their own feet.

Claim: [The state ethics commission] took absolutely the same percent of cuts as most other state agencies. They were somewhere in the 7 percent range same as the governors office.
Evidence Summary: The “For the People Act’—or HR 1—is devoted to government integrity, covering voting rights, campaign finance reform, and ethical standards. Among many potentially controversial and complex provisions, there is one that stands out for its simplicity: requiring the adoption of an ethics code for the Supreme Court. The fact that SCOTUS justices are the only nine judges in the United States who do not have a written code of ethics is not just a symbolic problem, but a very meaningful one that requires just this sort of legislative solution.

Claim: I believe we should have tax on carbon and deal aggressively with climate change. That is not (Hillary Clintons)position.
Evidence Summary: The Democratic party platform calls for a tax on carbon dioxide, an energy tax. Ocasio-Cortez promises that her top rate would only hit those earning more than $10 million a year. One “carbon tax” plan introduced by Democrat congressman Ted Deutch of Florida would increase taxes on energy by $1 trillion over the next ten years. A carbon tax offers the most cost-effective lever to reduce carbon emissions at the scale and speed that is necessary, the authors say.

Claim: "Rep. Paul Ryans budget proposal cuts nothing from Medicare, Social Security or defense in the next two to three years, and in three years, he does not cut one dime from the debt."
Evidence Summary: Under a law signed by President Obama several years ago, the White House’s Office of Management and Budget is required to make across-the-board cuts to other programs if any new deficit-increasing legislation is enacted. Hammill argued that if Congress were to pass a new entitlement program like those being championed by liberals, OMB director Mick Mulvaney could take the scissors to other federal programs Democrats support. Activism against PAYGO has been driven by the party's left flank, but Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, also announced his opposition.

Claim: "Wisconsin is broke, and state government is $3 billion in debt."
Evidence Summary: Illinois’ obligations to its pension system continue to squeeze spending on education, social services and other state programs. The state owes $7.4 billion in unpaid bills. New U.S. Census numbers show the “Illinois Exodus’ is ramping up. For the fifth straight year, the state lost more residents than it gained. Mr. Newsom’s new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. He faces big challenges. Rebuilding roads and bridges will cost money.

Claim: "Says U.S. Senate opponent Tommy Thompson personally made over $3 million from a federal contract granted to his healthcare company, but left 9/11 first responders without the care they were promised."
Evidence Summary: TSA officials say the number of airport screeners calling in sick during the government shutdown has ticked lower since Sunday. The Transportation Security Administration says 6.1 percent of screeners missed work Tuesday, nearly double the normal rate but down from 7.7 percent on Sunday. Michael Cohen says he paid a technology company to rig Trump's standing in online polls in 2014 and 2015. He tweeted Thursday that "what I did was at the direction of and for the sole benefit of" Trump.

Claim: "In Iraq, civilian deaths, incidents of bombings, etc., remain very low relative to what was going on last year."
Evidence Summary: IEDs were responsible for 42% of civilian casualties from all explosive harm, while airstrikes caused 32% of harm. The overall decrease in civilian casualties worldwide was largely due to the short-term defeat of Isis in Iraq and Syria. Afghanistan, Yemen, India and Libya are seeing a rise in some countries, including Ethiopia, Gaza, Iran, the Philippines and Malaysia. "I swear for every ISIS person you kill, you hit 20 civilians. I lived this in real time," says U.S. Rep. Adam Schiff.

Claim: "In the period from 2007 to 2011, the Office of Health Insurance Commissioner reported an 18 percent decline in the states total medical spending."
Evidence Summary: Researchers sketched a vivid line Friday linking the dollars spent by drugmakers to woo doctors around the country to a vast opioid epidemic. For each three additional payments made to physicians per 100,000 people in a county, opioid overdose deaths were up 18 percent, according to the study. Trump appeared to be referring to a recent claim by the White House Council of Economic Advisers that prescription drug prices fell last year. But as STAT pointed out in a recent fact check, the report said "growth in relative drug prices has slowed since January 2017"

Claim: "Like Marco Rubio, Sen. Barack Obama had one of the worst attendance records in the Senate."
Evidence Summary: North Carolina House race marred by fraud may not be resolved until the fall. Joe Biden said that white Americans need to acknowledge and admit that systemic racism still exists and must be rooted out. Sen. Michael Bennet criticizes Sen. Ted Cruz over the shutdown, saying "When the Senator from Texas shut this government down in 2013, my state was flooded" Sen. Mitt Romney said Thursday evening that his first year in the Senate has not been "boring," but he'd like to see more progress.

Claim: "Says if Congress doesnt avoid the sequester, tens of thousands of parents will have to scramble to find child care for their kids."
Evidence Summary: The government shutdown has caught in its cross hairs young people across America. Stella Blaylock, 11, worries whether her parents will be able to scrape together enough money for her braces. Other families are also worried about paperwork delays, and the financial and medical effects a prolonged shutdown could cause. The partial government shutdown over President Donald Trump’s desired wall on the southwestern border, began Dec. 22. It has forced hundreds of thousands of federal employees deemed essential to work without pay, while others have been furloughed.

Claim: "Citing his efforts to secure the border, Obama said, Overall, the number of people trying to cross our border illegally is the lowest it has been since the 1970s."
Evidence Summary: President Trump has frequently called the situation at the southern border with Mexico a crisis and insists that building his long-promised border wall will fix it. The number of illegal border crossings is down from 1.6 million in 2000 to fewer than 400,000 last year. In 2017, border-crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971. The White House suggested at the weekend that thousands of terrorists were caught attempting to cross the US-Mexico border, but in fact all but a handful were stopped at airports.

Claim: "If women seeking an abortion see their ultrasound, the odds are pretty high theyre going to keep the baby."
Evidence Summary: Even Democrats and people claiming to be pro-choice support these restrictions. The tide has turned so dramatically and the technology will only get more precise. The science caught up with what our eyes and hearts told us long ago. Now it’s time for our laws to do the same, writes Peggy Drexler, a former March for Life organizer. "We will not stop until every person in every state has the access to the health care they need. No matter what," she says.

Claim: "The average rate of fraud in the Earned Income Tax Credit, Medicare, Medicaid and food stamps programs is 20 to 25 percent."
Evidence Summary: In 2011, Cornell political scientist Suzanne Mettler surveyed the number of recipients of government benefits who deny receiving benefits. Left unanswered was whether these folks believed their benefactor was the Easter Bunny or the Tooth Fairy. Such delusions are particularly prevalent in red states, which contribute the least in federal revenues and rely most heavily on federal services. Suspected welfare fraud totaling nearly $400,000 prompted the arrests of 23 people last week in Tulare County, Calif., according to reports. All told, the county district attorney’s Bureau of Investigations identified nearly $1 million in welfare fraud for 2018.

Claim: "Gov. McAuliffes budget would raid school, other $$ 4 Obamacare in VA."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom's budget includes $80.7bn for K-12 schools and community colleges. It also includes $500m to encourage local governments to build emergency shelters and navigation centers for the homeless, and $25m to assist homeless disabled individuals in applying for disability benefits. McAuliffe's PAC raised over $300,000 in the second half of 2018 and spent on Democratic parties of New Hampshire and Iowa -- expenditures that a spokesperson said were not related to a presidential campaign.

Claim: "In May we generated more jobs than all the rest of the country combined: 28,000 jobs in May for the state, 54,000 for the entire country."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The just-ended year saw 2.4 million new jobs created. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion.

Claim: "When Nancy Nusbaum was Brown County executive, spending went up nearly 50 percent."
Evidence Summary: Newly inaugurated Kansas Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly set out this week to make good on her promise to undo eight years of Republican leadership by hiring state workers and expanding government services. On Monday she was sworn into office and by week’s end she had laid out a budget proposal on how she would like to spend part of the state’S projected $900 million surplus. The big items on her agenda: expanding Medicaid, boosting school funding and hiring more workers at the state level.

Claim: Report: 3 million votes in presidential election cast by illegal aliens.
Evidence Summary: In 2017, for the first time, the unauthorized population from Mexico constituted less than one-half of all the undocumented people in the U.S. At the same time, Mexico was the leading country for visa overstays in 2016, "about twice the number from India, China and Venezuela," according to the study. The number of undocumented people coming from Venezuela, which is wracked by political and economic turmoil, increased from 60,000 in 2013 to 145,00 in 2017. Trump says that "all Americans are hurt by uncontrolled, illegal migration," adding that "among those hardest hit are African-Americans and Hispanic Americans"

Claim: "The IRS is going to be in charge of a huge national database on health care that will include Americans personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets."
Evidence Summary: House Democrats should make it their top priority to obtain Donald Trump's tax returns and release them to the public, a progressive tax group argues. A 2013 change in federal health privacy law made it easier for hospitals to target their patients for donations. It enabled hospital records departments to share with staff fund-raisers some personal details of patients, including their health insurance status, the department treating them and the name of their physician. Few patients are aware of this, said Deven McGraw, a former deputy director of health information privacy at the federal Department of Health and Human Services.

Claim: The tuitions in Virginia colleges...have doubled -- 100 percent -- in the last 10 years.
Evidence Summary: Tuition and fees at public and private schools rose at roughly three times the rate of inflation between 2007 and 2018, according to a College Board survey. The widening price difference between private and public colleges has "even wealthy families starting to ask why pay four times as much for private," a researcher said. Only 44 percent of borrowers have repaid at least one dollar of principal within three years of beginning their payments. The massive debt burden — combined with a difficult job market for college grads — would increase the risks of default in normal circumstances.

Claim: "Says Sen. Mark Begich is ineffective because he has only passed one bill, the naming of a building."
Evidence Summary: Ald. Scott Waguespack, 32nd, the Progressive Caucus chairman, said the issues around Burke and Solis illustrate the need for fundamental changes in the City Council. “I don’t care what those two went after each other on but it’s obviously something so bad that the council can no longer wait for reforms we’ve been pushing,” he said. A spokesman for state Sen. John Flanagan, the Republican leader in the state Senate, did not respond to a request for comment on the bills.

Claim: The decision to cancel the trademark of the Washington Redskins is not the Patent and Trademark Office. This is Barack Obama.
Evidence Summary: The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday agreed to decide whether a federal law that blocks trademarks for brand names or logos bearing profane words or sexual imagery violates free speech rights. At issue is a provision of the law that lets the trademark office deny requests for trademarks on “immoral” and “scandalous” words and symbols. The justices were unanimous in ruling that the prohibition on disparaging trademarks violated the First Amendment. But they managed to split 4 to 4 in most of their reasoning, making it hard to analyze how the decision applies.

Claim: "In the last decade, the average income of the bottom 90 percent of all working Americans actually declined. The top 1 percent saw their income rise by an average of more than a quarter of a million dollars each."
Evidence Summary: As people of color make up a larger share of the diversifying US population, that persistent racial wealth divide is bringing down America’s median wealth. But while wealth at the middle falters, it's skyrocketing at the top. For the highest 0.1 percent of earners, incomes have grown more than 300 percent; for the top 0.01 percent, income has grown by as much as 450 percent. Globally, over the same period, the top 1% captured 27% of new income, while the bottom half of humanity – presently, more than 3 billion people – saw 12% of it.

Claim: "He's a good man but he's a pro-life liberal. He's right on the pro-life part, but he's a liberal."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has shown a willingness to subordinate principle to self-interest, writes Jordan Uhl. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them, he says. Uhl: Conservatives have abandoned evangelizing how conservatism is a vehicle by which to improve the general welfare of the public. He says they are espousing a warped ideology that is apathetic to problems in society, but more likely devoid of warmth and kindness toward those facing such problems. "I won big, and he didn’t," Trump said of Romney.

Claim: "We should be seeing numbers in the 500,000 jobs created per month. (Creating 115,000 jobs, the total from April 2012) is way, way, way off from what should happen in a normal recovery."
Evidence Summary: For now, though, economists believe that fears of an imminent recession are overblown. The unemployment rate — 3.7 percent in November — hovers near a 50-year nadir. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. Even wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly. That’s great news for anyone who works for a living – at least those who get paid to prognosticate about the economy.

Claim: "Our county now has the fastest growing airport in America, attracting nearly 1,000 new private sector jobs."
Evidence Summary: Meyers-Martin said that it is “so challenging to create a vibrant business community in the Southland.” She said she also looks forward to the potential advancement of plans for a third airport. “I think he (Pritzker) has a very good grasp about what some of our challenges are,” Meyers-Martin says of Pritzker. "I think this is one of the best places this county has ever been for what we have to offer our employees," Kelly said.

Claim: "I fought hard for that (state Senate) seat. I only lost by four points. I raised over $700,000."
Evidence Summary: At the time, Harris had just run and lost in the 2014 primary race for a U.S. Senate seat. "I had recognized the emergency ... And I was willing to do whatever it took to be the man that God would use," Harris said in his speech. "This is why the liberals are kicking our tails!" he growled with a smile. "It's not like I have tested this out with some focus groups, or done a bunch of polling," she said in Des Moines.

Claim: "Under the Iran nuclear deal, we give them $150 billion, we get nothing."
Evidence Summary: The US abrogation of the agreement means Tehran is receiving few of the economic benefits it was promised. On Sunday, the head of the country’s nuclear programme, Ali Akbar Salehi, said technicians had begun “preliminary activities for designing’ a new way of producing 20%-enriched uranium. That would be a violation of the deal that would escalate tensions with Israel, the Gulf states and the US. Trump, who campaigned on a promise to tear up the nuclear deal, said he ultimately pulled America out of the accord over Iran's ballistic missile program.

Claim: "Research shows the employer mandate in the House health reform bill would ""place millions 'at substantial risk of unemployment' with minority workers losing their jobs at twice the rate of their white counterparts."""
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic. The overriding concern for American families is rising health- care costs.

Claim: "Dont believe those phony numbers when you hear 4.9 and 5 percent unemployment. The numbers probably 28, 29, as high as 35. In fact, I even heard recently 42 percent."
Evidence Summary: "We need the government to start focusing on our education," he says. "I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments. People understand exactly what’s going on," he adds. "Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many ofThose people agree 100 percent with what I’'m doing" "You can talk yourself into a recession," he warns. "The government really needs to get together and work this out.”

Claim: Says Iowa Senate candidate Joni Ernst promises to shut down the Department of Education and abolish the EPA.
Evidence Summary: Joni Ernst says she turned down chance to be Donald Trump's vice-president. Ernst has spoken against sexual assault in the military and domestic violence during her time as a senator. The senator was the first woman in Iowa to be elected to Congress. She defeated Democrat Bruce Braley in 2014 and has said she plans to seek a second Senate term in 2020. The Iowa Republican met with Trump in New Jersey at his Bedminister golf course on 4 July 2016 and gave a positive statement about the meeting.

Claim: "The Democratic leader in the Senate, Harry Reid, has blocked any vote on the Keystone pipeline for years."
Evidence Summary: Reid served as majority leader from 2007 to 2015. He was instrumental in passing former President Barack Obama's signature healthcare law, the Affordable Care Act. Reid was also prescient in urging the Obama administration and congressional Republicans to go public about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. Reid also defended on his decision to do away with filibusters in judicial appointments – a move that, as the Times notes, cleared the way for Republicans and Trump to land two conservatives justices on the Supreme Court.

Claim: "After initially agreeing with Republicans on an amount for Zika funding, Democrats derailed it."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post's editorial board weighs in on the political fallout from Tuesday's speeches and the showdown over border security. On Saturday, assuming nothing miraculous happens in the next few days, the longest government shutdown in American history will be over. A fight among Democrats over abortion very nearly derailed the Affordable Care Act as it was becoming law in 2010. The House Democrats passed a spending bill to reopen the government that would also have reversed President Donald Trump’s restrictions on funding for international aid organizations that perform abortions or support abortion rights.

Claim: "We have a legal immigration system in America that accepts 1 million people a year, legally. No other country in the world even comes close to that."
Evidence Summary: The former president made the remarks at a press conference with then-Florida GOP Sen. Mel Martinez in 2005. Obama refuted the idea that the country has “an open border policy,” stating that its immigration system does a “very good job” of performing security and screening checks on new arrivals. “There is no way in hell that caging babies is a smart or a good or a right way to do it. We say no to building a wall and yes to building community," Obama said.

Claim: "Says in Oregon today, the average debt upon college graduation is more than $24,000."
Evidence Summary: Washington already owns or guarantees $1.4 trillion in student loan debt to nearly 43 million borrowers. Only 44 percent of borrowers have repaid at least one dollar of principal within three years of beginning their payments. A four-figure student loan could still haunt them for decades, in the form of lower wages once their payments are deducted and higher borrowing costs for other big purchases like cars and houses. Just 59 percent of Americans finish a bachelor's degree program within six years at a public institution, and non-graduates are three times as likely to default.

Claim: "Thanks to (Rick) Perrys bad budgeting, the (Texas) highway department has to convert some modern paved state roads back to gravel."
Evidence Summary: Linda McDaniel-Hale: Gov. Rauner didn't back up his boast of accomplishment. She says he didn't use bully pulpit to advance his agenda. Twitter users piled on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. She asks: Did you tell them about how you lost the election but tried to strip the incoming governor of his power or did you leave that out?

Claim: "Ohio is losing over 700 family farms a year, some of them just to pay the inheritance tax."
Evidence Summary: Rural vote helped put Trump over the top in the 2016 election, but farmers aren't doing so well with him in the White House. Net farm income fell an estimated 12 percent last year, down about 40 percent from its peak in 2013. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Ocasio-Cortez tweeted. "Wisconsin lost over 600 dairy farms last year and Trump’s trade wars haven’t helped," a Minnesota farmer said.

Claim: "Says according to recent polls,no Republican candidate is doing better against Hillary Clinton than myself."
Evidence Summary: CNN's John Sutter says he's shocked by Donald Trump's comments about Hillary Clinton. Sutter: "Republicans just need to stay together, and I believe that will happen" He says the GOP is in danger of losing the White House in 2016 if it doesn't change its ways. "I think the country is ready for a new generation of leaders," Sutter said. "It's time to get back to the basics and get to the business of running for office" "We're going to have to work together to get the job done," he said.

Claim: "In the last two years, I have supported and proposed $155 billion worth of targeting cuts. Dr. Gingrey has presented zero."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi deputy chief of staff Drew Hammill fired back shortly afterward, tweeting: "A vote AGAINST the Democratic Rules package is a vote to let [Director of the Office of Management and Budget] Mick Mulvaney make across the board cuts" A study released in July by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University said Ocasio-Cortez's proposed 'Medicare for all' solution would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years.

Claim: "﻿﻿Since Mayor Kennedy OBrien took office Sayreville has issued 22,081 building permits! Now OBrien is holding secret meetings with big developers."
Evidence Summary: Meetings like this, held in July and November, provided essential feedback that led Hopkins, 2nd, to ditching the traffic-clogging stadium and the slick corporate entertainment district. Sterling Bay is seeking a zoning change that would allow it to build more than 12 million square feet of offices, apartments, shops and hotel rooms on 54.5 acres of former industrial land along the Chicago River. The developer also wants $800 million in controversial tax increment financing to back the construction of new roads, bridges and other infrastructure.

Claim: "In 2011 alone, 269 New Jerseyans were killed by gun violence."
Evidence Summary: Two of the five worst mass shootings in recent U.S. history occurred in 2017. Suicides made up more than half the total. States that passed right-to-carry laws experienced 13 to 15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates, over a period of 10 years. There is no credible evidence that permissive laws prevent or deter crime, says a study by Stanford researchers. The study was published in the journal of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, which is published by the Association of State and Territorial Prosecutors.

Claim: Ben Franklin once quipped that only two things in life were certain: death and taxes. I think even he didnt envision that the tax man would visit on the day of your death.
Evidence Summary: ‘I think it’s crucial, and I’m for an income tax, but I think wealth tax is at the top of the list,’ he says. ‘It is between the many, who do the work, create the wealth and pay taxes, and the few, who set the rules, reap the rewards and so often dodge taxes.’ ‘You always expect the worst and are never disappointed when things go wrong. If the worst doesn’t happen, that’ll be a bonus,” he adds.

Claim: "Go look on the West Point website and youll see those specific words, full scholarship to West Point. So even though it is, you know, given as a grant for anybody who gets in, those words are used."
Evidence Summary: "For one, that's $100,000 investment in my future," Bell said. "After four years that means a lot when I'm about to graduate with no debt" Bell: "I don't understand what the security question will be and what gets thrown in there. I think this is more of a political issue.”“The program is advanced, underestimated and highly lethal," Bell says. "It wasn't a free for all.""It is going to take debt forgiveness on the island," Bell adds.

Claim: "This (SCHIP) is socialized medicine. It is going to go to families that make $60,000 a year. Those aren't poor children."
Evidence Summary: The White House held an event for politicians and health care officials to hear firsthand accounts of people who struggled with health care costs and access. The event was one of those events where political leaders trot out poor people to give a “face” to their cause. Here’s how Gary, in partnership with Mary, has turned that compassion and outrage into action. They established West Health, a family of nonprofit organizations including a foundation, medical research institute and healthcare policy center dedicated to lowering healthcare costs.

Claim: "Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States."
Evidence Summary: The number almost certainly isn’t in the thousands, as has been claimed or implied by the administration. In fiscal 2017, according to agency data and the White House's own briefing sheet, the Department of Homeland Security prevented nearly 4,000 known or suspected terrorists from "traveling to or entering the United States" The figure she seems to be citing is based on 2017 data, not 2018, and refers to stops made by Homeland Security across the globe, mainly at airports. “These are a group of people who are among the worst terrorists in the world," Sanders said.

Claim: "If we keep the minimum wage at the current level, then single-parent families earning the minimum wage at a full-time job will live in poverty in New Jersey."
Evidence Summary: The bill would increase the minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2024 for the majority of workers. It includes automatic increases to match increases in the median wage earned by all Americans starting in 2025. “No one working a full-time job should ever live in poverty,” Gov. Murphy said in a statement. But not all Democrats are on board. Sen. Vin Gopal called for the bill to be voted down over the small business provision. The agreement also marks a major political victory for Mr. Murphy.

Claim: The presidents first major foreign policy speech in Cairo was to apologize for our country.
Evidence Summary: Pompeo directly repudiated Obama’s 2009 Cairo speech, which was an overture by the then-new president to the Islamic world. The speech served as an explicit rebuttal of the address that Obama delivered in Cairo in 2009, extending an olive branch to Iran. "The United States has reasserted its traditional role as a force for good in this region," Pompeo told an audience at American University in Cairo. "We've learned from our mistakes," he said.

Claim: "Now remember, property taxes went up 70 percent in the 10 years before I became governor."
Evidence Summary: Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker used an analogy to explain tax rates to fifth-graders. Ocasio-Cortez tweeted back that the analogy was completely wrong and proved that her Twitter game remains supreme. Walker signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. In 1980, a fifth-grader whose allowance was less than $44 a week would have owed no tax at all on the 10-spot grammy paid for doing chores. And he or she would have had to have a weekly stipend of more than $2,000 a week before the 70 percent rate kicked in.

Claim: "Of course, there is large scale voter fraud happening on and before election day."
Evidence Summary: "Whatever happens, I'm always going to know that fact. Even if I have to spend the rest of my life convincing the administration, or whoever comes next," Fudge says. The Associated Press received more than 50 calls from people across the country who identified themselves as opposition supporters. They complained of intimidation and threats, and of being forced to vote in front of ruling party men inside polling booths. Those complaints could not be verified independently. The use of electronic voting machines was a major source of contention during the election campaign.

Claim: "Forty percent of gross domestic product is state, local, or federal money."
Evidence Summary: "We need $7 billion to completely fund the schools, but unfortunately we can’t get it all at once," Kifowit says. "The belief that schools are not getting paid is fundamentally wrong," she says. The idea tonight is to educate the public more about what the single largest portion of their property taxes goes for, she adds. "It is between the many, who do the work, create the wealth and pay taxes, and the few, who set the rules, reap the rewards and so often dodge taxes," the Center for Tax and Budget Accountability's Ralph Martire says.

Claim: "During his first year, President Obama said he was going to visit Kim Jong-ll and Ahmadinejad and Assad and Chavez the worst actors in the world."
Evidence Summary: Mike Pompeo accused Barack Obama on Thursday of sowing chaos in the Middle East by failing to adequately confront Islamist militants. Pompeo chose Cairo, the site of President Barack Obama’s 2009 address to the Islamic world, to deliver a caustic, point-by-point repudiation of Mr. Obama's message. In two remarkable statements on Thursday, Mr. Trump and his secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, explicitly favored foreign autocrats over elected American leaders. The comments raised eyebrows in the United States and abroad not the least because Trump himself is being criticized.

Claim: "Says Republican state leaders are using ""Soviet-style"" budget management."
Evidence Summary: Republican legislators want to push Indiana school districts toward spending a higher percentage of their state funding on teachers and other classroom costs. The move comes as Republican Gov. Eric Holcomb and GOP lawmakers have said boosting teacher pay is a top priority for the new state budget. Republicans remain obsessed with former secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email system, insisting Team Clinton was not only stupid and careless (it was), but also criminal (despite the Justice Department concluding it wasn’t). If stupid and. careless handling of government records is a crime to the GOP, President George W. Bush's attorney general Alberto Gonzales set a world record in this category.

Claim: 7579	945.json	half-true	The stimulus bill includes $8 billion for high-speed rail projects, such as a 'magnetic levitation' line from Las Vegas to Disneyland."""
Evidence Summary: The plan would use the Army Corps of Engineers and a portion of $13.9 billion of Army Corps funding to build 315 miles of barrier along the U.S.-Mexico border. The money was set aside to fund projects all over the country including storm-damaged areas of Puerto Rico through fiscal year 2020. The plan could be implemented if Trump declares a national emergency in order to build the wall and would use more money and build more miles than the administration has requested from Congress. This would generate $144bn in additional income for families who need it most.

Claim: "Since Debbie Halvorson has been in politics, Illinois has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs."
Evidence Summary: Illinoisans in 2018, like Americans in 1980, saw a state in decline under four dreary years of the Rauner administration. Both major parties ought to recognize the need to stanch an exodus of business and residents from Illinois. Our ears perked up when Pritzker said he would work to make Illinois “the fastest-growing big state economy in the nation.” We have Reagan to thank for, “Let’s make America great again”

Claim: "Many state and federal agencies have such navigators involved in helping folks maneuver through the often complex processes associated with filing benefits claims, for example -- even buying health insurance."
Evidence Summary: An estimated 800,000 government workers affected by the shutdown won't lose their health insurance. But an unknown number are in limbo like air traffic controller Oliver Daskalakis. He's unable to add family members such as spouses, newborns or adopted children to an existing health plan. Other families are also worried about paperwork delays, and the financial and medical effects a prolonged shutdown could cause."Hundreds of thousands of real families have had their financial and personal lives turned upside down by this unnecessary shutdown," Sen. Tina Smith says.

Claim: Sharron Angle voted to protect sex offenders.
Evidence Summary: Inspectors found that not enough was being done to protect the public from sex offenders. In two cases, sex offenders were allowed to stay in a hotel instead of a prison. The report was published by the National Crime Agency (NCA) on Thursday. It is the first time the NCA has published a report on sex offenders in the UK since the 1990s. The NCA said the report was necessary to ensure the public was not at risk of sex offences. It also said it was needed to make sure the public were aware of how to report sex offenders to authorities.

Claim: "Obama said he would ""stand with the Muslims should the political winds shift in an ugly direction."""
Evidence Summary: Pompeo directly repudiated Obama’s 2009 Cairo speech, which was an overture by the then-new president to the Islamic world. In that 2009 speech, Obama sought a "new beginning" between the United States and the Muslim world. Pompeo said that vision was timid, misguided and created a vacuum that allowed ISIS to flourish and Iran to spread its "cancerous" influence in Syria and elsewhere. It takes a certain amount of twisted courage, I suppose, to stand before a global audience and make such claims.

Claim: "A cap-and-trade bill would destroy over 50,000 jobs in Virginia."
Evidence Summary: Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product. It ranks 26th in income equality, according to the American Community Survey. Mr. Carter has been a vocal opponent of the incentive package, worth more than half a billion dollars, used to lure one of Amazon’s new headquarters to Crystal City, Va. And he fought against a bill overhauling the state”s energy grid, arguing that it gave away too much to Dominion, a powerful for-profit utility.

Claim: "Nearly 40,000 new jobs have been created in the last year due to the new wells . . . right here in Ohio."
Evidence Summary: Midland's unemployment rate was 2.1 percent in October, compared to the nation's 3.7 percent rate. The last decade’s shale boom has led to school overcrowding, soaring traffic fatalities, drug abuse and strains on the power grid. The region needs more pediatricians, better schools and affordable housing to attract families, Evans said. No matter how spectacularly or repeatedly the data proves the pessimists wrong – and missing the mark by 113,000 is pretty spectacular – the anti-Trump economic “experts” continue to warn that a recession is just around the corner.

Claim: Tells President Barack Obama that he also asked former President George W. Bush about how he felt about Americans hating him.
Evidence Summary: The President continues to insist he is America’s “favorite President.” The lies continue. Spokesmen for former Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush told Politico that neither of them had discussed the border wall with Trump. Former President Barack Obama hasn’t spoken Trump once since the inauguration except for exchanging a few words at former President George H.W. Bush's funeral last month. All four living former presidents have denied having such a conversation with Donald Trump.

Claim: "Says I worked with our Mayor and other commissioners to help save the school year when a budget crisis in Salem threatened to cut four weeks of the school year, including negotiating with teachers to work for free."
Evidence Summary: Last year, she covered three schools. Now she spends her week shuttling between four of them. “This really isn’t about pay,” Villaryo said. ‘We really want to be teaching. But it’s about the kids. Unfortunately, there has to be some disruption in order to make the district and the state realize it,’ she said. She hopes the school district learns a lesson itself: “Profit isn”t everything. There are more important things out there.”

Claim: "We work longer hours than any people in the industrialized world, including the Japanese."
Evidence Summary: The Japanese government intends to bring in 345,000 more foreign workers in the next five years. Many will come from nations such as China, Myanmar, Vietnam and the Philippines. The expected arrival of large numbers of foreign, blue-collar workers in Japan over the coming five years has raised fears of a sharp rise in incidences of exploitation. The world’s third-biggest economy is battling its tightest labour shortage in decades due to its low birthrate and rapidly ageing society.

Claim: "John McCain ""is one of the few senators of either party who oppose this bill (to expand education aid for veterans) because he thinks it's too generous."""
Evidence Summary: Some Democrats suggested that Mr. Wilkie was ignoring the opinions of traditional organizations on this law. Rep. Mark Takano, a California Democrat chairing the veterans' affairs committee, plans to hold hearings on the impact of DeVos' policies on military veterans. Critics say paying for care in the private sector would starve the 153-year-old veterans’ health care system. Although the Trump administration has kept details quiet, officials inside and outside the department say the plan closely resembles the military’s insurance plan, Tricare Prime.

Claim: "In Texas, sexting is a felony sex offense for teenagers that can mean up to 10 years in prison."
Evidence Summary: If found guilty, Mr Wilson could be jailed for up to 20 years. Cyberflashing can be prosecuted under a number of different laws, which carry prison sentences of up to two years. But there are problems with these laws, says barrister Kate Parker, director of the UK-based Schools Consent Project. She says it is crucial to distinguish between noncontact offences, in which the perpetrator does not touch his or her victim, and contact offences, which are more likely to involve physical contact.

Claim: "In Muslim countries, under the Sharia, there is a death penalty for blaspheming Mohammad."
Evidence Summary: Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, a former governor of the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, was released from prison after serving nearly two years for blasphemy against Islam. He ran afoul of Indonesia’s blasphemy law when he tried to counter suggestions that faithful Muslims should not support non-Muslim politicians. Windridge points out the non-serious nature of the crimes the accused are charged with, for which the prosecution is seeking the death sentence in five cases. He says the crimes fall "well short" of the standard required to make the death penalty acceptable.

Claim: "After Reagan took office, ""we didn't raise taxes and we didn't cut entitlements. What we did was we cut taxes."""
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez tweeted: ‘Imagine if you did chores for your grandma and she gave you $10. When you got home, your parents took $7 from you’ The students said: “That’s not fair!” Even 5th graders get it.’ This touched off a flurry of indignation, scorn and contempt from the far-right. The former governor responded with a salvo of his own on Twitter. He said that prior to the term of Republican President Ronald Reagan (1981-89) the federal government took 70 percent of what a person earned.

Claim: Newt Gingrich co-sponsored a bill with Nancy Pelosi that would have given $60 million a year to a U.N. program supporting Chinas brutal one-child policy.
Evidence Summary: The day after Democrats took back the House in the November 2018 election, Pelosi brought up the last time Democrats had the House under a Republican president. Pelosi pointed out that despite divided government Bush signed bills sent over from the Democratic-led House. Pelosi brought her caucus together to support Bush on bailing out the banks during the 2008 financial crisis. When the economy teetered on collapse in 2008, she was “very constructive” in getting Democrats to back a $700-billion bailout of the U.S. financial system.

Claim: [A]n extra 8 million Americans [are] projected to join state Medicaid programs in the next few years.
Evidence Summary: Clinics are torn: They want to keep patients informed, but don't want to scare them. Some state attorneys general say they would challenge any such policy in the courts. Also complicating the administration’s push: the newfound popularity of Medicaid. Voters in three GOP-led states in November approved ballot measures to expand Medicaid, which has been adopted by about two-thirds of states. The administration wants to let states use waivers to reshape their Medicaid programs, but the effort could face legal challenges.

Claim: Martin Luther King was a Republican.
Evidence Summary: Delta Air Lines paid to keep the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historical Park open. Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta held a special service to commemorate the civil rights leader's life. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., and House Republican Conference Chair Liz Cheney have also leveled harsh criticism of King. "Everything about white supremacy and white nationalism goes against who we are as a nation," McCarthy wrote in a statement released Thursday, "Steve's language is reckless, wrong, and has no place in our society"

Claim: "Ohio has created 45,000 new manufacturing jobs since 2010. And thats due in large part to the fact that the auto rescue has helped Ohio."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector, which added 50,000 jobs last month and 346,000 for the year. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000jobs in December, the bulk of which — 19,000 Jobs — was in durable goods production. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created added under Trump, compared to a net loss of over 200,000 under Obama. Last year was America's best manufacturing performance since 1997 - since before China joined the World Trade Organization and sucked all those jobs away.

Claim: "West has raised $2 million from those that would leave our beaches in ruins, end Social Security and Medicare, and give corporations free reign."
Evidence Summary: Candidates must stress that their opponents' inaction on environmental issues hurts American workers and their communities. Rick Scott won a Senate seat this fall even though his gutting of Florida’s water management budget by hundreds of millions of dollars likely created the conditions for the unprecedented red tide event. The Trumps saw the downtrodden and immigrants as people to weave into the American dream. The D’Alesandros saw them as suckers to squeeze; the Trumps see them as sucker to squeeze.

Claim: "If you look at the three people on the (debate) stage from the United States Senate, all three of them have a combined two bills that became law that theyve sponsored."
Evidence Summary: The current Congress can break with this depressing precedent by inserting itself into the debate. All lawmakers have to do is implement the law their forebears passed 42 years ago. But in reality, there are only about 60 Members in both the House and Senate with the acumen to advance major legislation. These days, many Americans harbor extreme doubts about their elected officials’ capacity to legislate and improve citizens’ lives. If Congress wishes to be taken seriously, both parties need to regain the trust of their constituents.

Claim: Portland Bureau of Transportation barely break(s) even ticketing motorists.
Evidence Summary: A proposed state law would let cities issue $200 fines to railroad companies that fail to give advance warning when a train will block a crossing. Hammond Mayor Thomas McDermott Jr. has contended that trains have sat across roads more often since last year. A NIRPC task force on the issue has been looking for a potential solution at the federal level, primarily the Surface Transportation Board. The commission also approved a 2019 budget of $3.2 million, 16 percent less than last year’s.

Claim: "Says millions of dollars in tax breaks were paid for by busting unions, cutting BadgerCare, and raising taxes on the poor and the middle class, thanks to Elizabeth Coggs help."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., has suggested a 70 percent tax on the ultra wealthy to fund programs to battle climate change. Fox News host Ainsley Earhardt asked New York Post columnist and Fox News contributor Michael Goodwin why he thinks she has so much support. Goodwin responded by saying that “young people today are not being educated properly in schools” and “don’t know the history of our country.”

Claim: "The U.S. unemployment rate has remained above 8 percent for 43 consecutive months, the longest stretch since the Great Depression."
Evidence Summary: U.S. employers dramatically stepped up their hiring in December, adding 312,000 jobs in an encouraging display of strength for an economy in the midst of a trade war, slowing global growth and a partial shutdown of the federal government. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "In Ohio, more than half the providers of safe and legal abortion have had to shut down since Gov. John Kasich took office in 2011."
Evidence Summary: Kentucky lawmakers are ratcheting up the stakes with a new bill to ban most abortions once a fetal heartbeat is detected. The American Civil Liberties Union warns the heartbeat bill would prohibit most abortions in Kentucky and would immediately trigger a legal challenge. The elections also accelerated a trend toward one-party rule in states, which will affect both sides of the policy debate. "We're going to see access really be very different from state to state across the country," Salganicoff said. "Where you live is going to really matter in terms of whether you can get abortion access"

Claim: "Says neither President Barack Obama nor Mexico President Felipe Calderon have been on the border to see whats happening to the citizens of Mexico, and for that matter the citizens of Texas."
Evidence Summary: CNN’s chief White House correspondent – who seemingly uploaded the video from a local Burger King – is in Texas. He declared there was “no sign of the national emergency that the president has been talking about” and it was ‘tranquil’ near him. The Times sent correspondents to the four states bordering Mexico and found few who shared the president's sense of alarm. Many said there was indeed a humanitarian crisis unfolding — but they blamed the Trump administration for worsening it.

Claim: "Members of Congress specifically exempted themselves from many of the laws they have passed, such as being exempt from any fear of prosecution for sexual harassment ... (and) from the healthcare reform."
Evidence Summary: Members of Congress would be barred from serving on corporate boards and could not use taxpayer dollars to settle employment discrimination cases. All House members would be required to go through annual ethics training, under another provision. Lawmakers would also be banned from serving as an officer or director at a public company. The rules package was pushed by Rep. David Cicilline, D-R.I., one of eight openly LGBTQ lawmakers in the House. “Government at its best works for the benefit of all Americans, not just the powerful and privileged,” he said in a statement.

Claim: "First, he said he would take all of our troops out in six months, and now he acknowledges it would take a year."
Evidence Summary: State Department officials pushed back on what they called the “narrative” that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Middle East, giving up on countering ISIS. The officials said a Syria withdrawal would be done “in a deliberate, heavily coordinated way with allies and partners” The New York Times reported Dec. 31 that the latest pullout plan would take about four months, a timeline Trump denied having said on Wednesday. "Our troops are coming out," Trump told troops in Iraq.

Claim: "The labor force participation rate -- the share of the potential workforce that is actually working or looking for work-- currently stands below 63%, the lowest level since the 1970s."
Evidence Summary: Labor force participation rate eased to 65.6 percent in December, helping bring down the unemployment rate to 5.0 percent - an equal 6-1/2 year low. The underemployment rate fell, too, to 8.4 percent but stayed above its historical average, pointing to still-high spare capacity in the labor market. Health care led the broad-based job gains with 58,000; Leisure and hospitality, which includes restaurants and bars, added 55,000. Construction added 38,000 jobs after not adding any in November.

Claim: "Ten times, no Republican candidate for president had enough delegates to claim the nomination before the partys convention, and seven of those times somebody who was not the leader of delegates was selected as the nominee of the party."
Evidence Summary: The field is poised to outpace the 17 credible candidates who competed at some point for the 1976 Democratic nomination, the largest number ever. With the qualified exception of Lyndon Johnson in 1968, no incumbent president who sought his party’s nomination has failed to win it since Chester A. Arthur in 1884. The last time a convention opened without a candidate holding a lock on the nomination was in 1976, in Kansas City, when Republican president Gerald Ford was in the final throes of his battle against challenger Ronald Reagan.

Claim: "The president's plan, even after the end of its withdrawal timeline is reached, will leave in place up to 50,000 U.S. troops."
Evidence Summary: Trump tweeted on Monday: "We will be leaving at a proper pace while at the same time continuing to fight ISIS and doing all else that is prudent and necessary!" Some equipment has been moved out of Syria, but not any of the 2,000 U.S. troops have left. Officials have said the withdrawal has no timeline and is conditions-based, including the enduring defeat of ISIS. American troops will remain in Iraq, and Trump has suggested as recently as Sunday that they could "attack again" if ISIS or another terrorist group emerged.

Claim: "Says that when adjusted for inflation and population growth, state general revenue spending has decreased 10.7 percent on his watch."
Evidence Summary: Eric Holcomb is looking to dip slightly into the state's reserves for more money toward a goal of boosting teacher pay. Holcomb used his State of the State speech Tuesday evening to announce plans to seek $140 million in the new two-year state budget to pay off teacher pension obligations owed by school districts. Employers want deeper workers’ compensation reform and property tax relief. “The idea tonight is to educate the public more about what the single largest portion of their property taxes goes for,” Holcomb said.

Claim: One out of 10 minimum-wage workers in the U.S. live in Texas.
Evidence Summary: The cases we handled all took place in New York, which for years has had among the strongest labor laws, most aggressive enforcement agencies and highest union density in the country. How many similar and worse situations emerge every day in other states, including those with less worker-protective landscapes? A 2017 study by the Economic Policy Institute of wage violations in the 10 most populous states found that 2.4 million workers in those states lose $8 billion annually to minimum wage violations, with per worker losses averaging $3,300 annually, amounting to nearly a quarter of their earned wages.

Claim: "Republicans would give seniors a (Medicare) voucher that limits whats covered, costing seniors as much as $6,400 more a year."
Evidence Summary: The Department of Veterans Affairs is preparing to shift billions of dollars from government-run hospitals to private health care providers. A new survey found broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care, including letting some people buy into Medicare or Medicaid. The Medicare-for-all plan pushed by Sanders would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years. But respondents viewed it very favorably if it would eliminate all health insurance premiums and reduce out-of-pocket health care costs for most Americans.

Claim: "For people in the top 1 percent for income, your effective tax burden is in the low 20s, the lowest its been in decades and decades and decades -- lower than somebody who might make substantially less money."
Evidence Summary: Newly elected Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez spent her first few weeks on Capitol Hill calling for a 70% top marginal income-tax rate. Some liberals are citing a 2011 study by economists Peter Diamond and Emmanuel Saez, which advocates for confiscatory upper-range tax rates. But a quick look at their analysis reveals grave caveats that only an advocate of higher taxes could possibly overlook. Just as the point of taxing carbon is not to raise revenue but to reduce carbon emissions, high tax rates for sky-high incomes do not aim at funding Medicare for All.

Claim: "Ninety-five percent of Oregonians now have health insurance coverage, tens of thousands for the very first time."
Evidence Summary: California, New York and Washington are among the states that embraced the Affordable Care Act by immediately adopting its Medicaid expansion for low-income adults. The uninsured rates in all three states are below the national average of 10 percent as of 2017. Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state’s voters. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including Obamacare.

Claim: Former business partner Robert Gay says: The man who helped save my daughter was Mitt Romney.
Evidence Summary: The Romney campaign responded to the criticism by asking Ric to stay quiet and not speak publicly about anything. The character-filled Romney was asking the gay man to go hide in the closet. Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. In his first run for public office against then-Sen. Ted Kennedy (D) in 1994 and later in his successful 2002 race for governor of Massachusetts, Romney declared himself a strong supporter of abortion rights – a requisite position for any Republican hoping to win office in New England.

Claim: "The sales tax increase, if approved, will cost taxpayers up to $300 million per year, in perpetuity, to finance a rail system for the City of Tampa."
Evidence Summary: In May 2018, the board approved a $400,000 fund to oppose the project “due to both the need being unwarranted and the absence of data on its full environmental impact,” according to the village’s website. The board approved Jan. 15 allocating $105,000 from reserve funds for the first quarter of 2019 to continue its opposition to the project. North Siders remain wary of the scale envisioned for Lincoln Yards’ towers. There are still unanswered questions about how the infusion of density will affect traffic flow in already congested neighborhoods.

Claim: "Among the developed nations, we are the least economically and socially mobile country in the world."
Evidence Summary: "We need the government to start focusing on our education," Macron says. "It would be dangerous if our situation drives us to ignore the world around us," he adds. "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to," he says. 'We want to change things in order to live better, and we want to innovate in our plans for democracy, politics, economy and the environment,' he says in a speech to the French parliament. "To do this, France cannot close itself off to the world," Macron adds.

Claim: "Bill Nelson voted for a ban on millions of commonly owned firearms, which included many popular hunting and target rifles."
Evidence Summary: Hill says he filed the bill because he took a "solemn oath to support, protect and defend the US Constitution" Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg spoke out against the new bill in a livestream on social media Tuesday evening. The National Rifle Association, the nation's largest pro-gun special interest group, filed a lawsuit against the state of Florida last year immediately after the post-Parkland laws were passed on similar grounds. The bill is co-sponsored by Reps. Mike Thompson, D-Calif., and Peter King, R-N.Y.

Claim: "Says that in his book, Rick Perry said that Social Security is unconstitutional."
Evidence Summary: Conservative commentator Ben Shapiro wrote, "You’re a governmental official and there is a thing called the First Amendment" Conservative activist Tom Fitton tweeted that the overture to Democrats “will encourage more illegal immigration and undermine the rule of law” NumbersUSA president Roy Beck called the president’s offer “a loser for the forgotten American workers who were central to his campaign promises” Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, called social security a “Ponzi scheme”

Claim: "More lives have been lost because of the war with the drug cartels in Juarez alone, just a few blocks from the United States of America, than have been lost in the war in Afghanistan."
Evidence Summary: "The Steel Barrier, or Wall, should have been built by previous administrations long ago. They never got it done - I will. Without it, our Country cannot be safe. Criminals, Gangs, Human Traffickers, Drugs & so much other big trouble can easily pour in. It can be stopped cold!" he tweeted. "The president should be really defending why we are funding such an agency at all because right now, what we are seeing is death," said CNN's Jim Acosta.

Claim: "A gas tax holiday is a gimmick that ""every economist says will just go into the pockets of the oil companies."""
Evidence Summary: This could be the year Congress tries to enact the mother of all taxes, a carbon tax. Everything that is fabricated, grown, operated or moved is made possible by hydrocarbons. A carbon tax is a tax on existence, because all aspects of living require energy. Experts said Trump can take some credit for the increased supply of gas that has driven prices lower, but that fuel economics is a hugely complex subject, impacted by many variables. The discussion about the benefits of lower gas prices also leaves unmentioned a collateral impact: Cheaper gas increases consumption.

Claim: "During the Civil War, more than 300,000 Ohioans served in the Union Army -- more per capita than any other state."
Evidence Summary: The Times reported that recruitment usually ventures into the red states from Virginia through the South to Texas, where young Americans enlist at numbers two to three times greater than in other regions. Within big blue metropolitan areas of the Northeast, Midwest and West Coast, young Americans are less likely to have military family, friends and mentors and therefore don’t enlist. “In the 22 cities we know we can do better and go after the quality that exists there,” Brigadier Gen. Kevin Vereen told Fox News' “The Story” Wednesday night.

Claim: "The national debt ""has gone up by $1,729,000,000 during the Isner v. Mahut match."""
Evidence Summary: Americans increased revolving debt by nearly 11 percent on an annualized basis in October. Total debt rose to $13.5 trillion in the third quarter of 2018, including a 1.6 percent increase in mortgages, 2.2 percent growth in auto loans. The notion that debt doesn’t matter — which is gaining some currency on the left — is wrong. It’s now $22 trillion and projected to soar to $33 trillion by fiscal year 2028, now nearly eight years and nine months away.

Claim: "Says that Mitt Romneys response to the crisis in the auto industry was, Let Detroit go bankrupt."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote an op-ed in the New York Times praising Donald Trump's policies. But he said the president had not risen to the mantle of the office. He cited the departures of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and White House chief of staff John Kelly. The timing of the article, just two days before Romney is sworn in as senator for Utah, has prompted some to speculate he is positioning himself as a challenger to Mr Trump for the Republican presidential nomination. Trump, who previously attacked Romney as a "failed candidate" over his 2012 loss to Democrat Barack Obama, had not commented as of early Wednesday.

Claim: "Ninety-six percent of the last session, (U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar) voted with Nancy Pelosi."
Evidence Summary: 15 Democrats didn't cast a vote for Pelosi, with 12 of those lawmakers voting for someone other than her. The day served as a powerful reminder of the shifting gender dynamics of the House as Democrats ascend to power. When Pelosi arrived on Capitol Hill in 1987, there were 23 female members. As of Thursday, there are 102, nearly 90 percent of whom are Democrats. The House Freedom Caucus’ political arm has launched a $1 million ad campaign pressing the need for a border wall.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama neversaid, No boots on the ground in Syria."
Evidence Summary: Trump Announces Start Of Troop Withdrawal In Syria Amid Mixed Messaging. Secretary of state and national security advisers sent mixed signals about U.S. commitments in the Middle East as they toured the region. Pompeo claimed the US under Obama had been timid about asserting itself, “when the times – and our partners – demanded it” He committed to ongoing airstrikes against Isis but did not directly address Trump’s decision to withdraw 2,000 US ground forces from eastern Syria.

Claim: Wisconsins Supreme Court justices are deciding fewer opinions in civil and criminal cases than they used to.
Evidence Summary: Colorado seeks $100,000 in punitive damages from Aubrey Elenis, director of the Colorado Civil Rights Division. Justice Kennedy’s replacement by Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh makes a ruling limiting partisan gerrymandering less likely, election law experts said. The high court has been trending in recent years toward interpreting the Constitution as written, rather than as it might be viewed today. The balance of power may be held by Trump's justices – Neil Gorsuch, who replaced Scalia in 2017, and Brett Kavanaugh, who replacement Anthony Kennedy in October.

Claim: "When I served as City Commissioner, we made great strides we successfully fought for, and won, adding women and people of color to the Fire Bureau."
Evidence Summary: The mayors agreed Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson is steering the city in the right direction, despite strong financial head winds. Hatcher praised her for her election as president of the National League of Cities and spoke of the importance of leading beyond the city’s borders. “She had a personality that was just energizing. And it didn’t matter who it was in the department,” Hatcher said of the mayor. "I've been able to help so many families this year and just really push Blue Line Bears to be the best that it can be," she said.

Claim: "Says the federal government is spending $765,828 to subsidize pancakes for yuppies in Washington."
Evidence Summary: Z-Burger in Washington, D.C., gave away $12,000 worth of free burgers, fries and drinks to any worker with government identification. "A lot of government workers are our customers and they have supported us in the past and are very loyal," said owner Peter Tabibian. Such delusions are particularly prevalent in red states, which contribute the least in federal revenues and rely most heavily on federal services. But they also pervade the generally fortunate people who rely on tax breaks without realizing they are receiving government largess.

Claim: "The man who was in charge of the investigation of Hillary Clinton accepted essentially from Hillary Clinton $675,000 that went to his wife."
Evidence Summary: Giuliani has muddied the White House's messaging around Mueller's probe, including whether the president knew about a $130,000 hush money payment to Stormy Daniels. Giuliani has also evolved his own messaging around collusion, and both Giuliani and Trump have both stated before that there was no collaboration between the Kremlin and the larger campaign. Trump has repeatedly and emphatically said there was "no collusion" and senior campaign officials, including counselor to the president Kellyanne Conway, have also denied accusations of collusion.

Claim: "We have lost 600,000 jobs over the period of the last 10 years. Only Michigan and California have done worse."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. But it’s presumably a less welcome development for those who get paid to prognosticate about the economy – at least those who have bought into the fanciful notion that stock market fluctuations presage the implosion of an economy that just came off a year with best gross domestic product growth since 2005.

Claim: "We have an 80 percent graduation rate in high school after spending more per student than any country in the world other than Liechtenstein, I think, or Luxembourg and a couple other small countries."
Evidence Summary: Nearly 1.1 million international students attended U.S. colleges and universities in 2017. They generated $42.4 billion in export revenue, more than double the amount eight years ago. "We need the government to start focusing on our education," says a teacher at a Chinese school in Iowa City. "I look at some of the predatory, for-profit educations that just don’t care," he says. "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to"

Claim: "The health care bill will subsidize families of four that make more than $80,000 a year."
Evidence Summary: The Affordable Care Act began to expand health coverage through broadened access to Medicaid benefits for low-income adults and through subsidized private health insurance sold to low- and middle-income households. House Democrats would be wise to maintain their focus on a minimum wage increase in the face of all the distractions and political obstacles they’ll surely encounter during the 116th Congress. The proposal also includes a job-guarantee program offering “a living wage job to every person who wants one;” a “just transition” for workers affected by climate change.

Claim: "Says an estimate that Texas will face an $18 billion budget gap is a number that somebody just reached up in the air and grabbed."""
Evidence Summary: The county is unlikely to accept an optimistic prediction of future state funding until that money is in the bank. It’s also not going to factor in the possibility that legislators could provide more money — or that state or local voters could approve pending ballot initiatives. Such tax measures will be appearing on ballots in 2020. “The idea tonight is to educate the public more about what the single largest portion of their property taxes goes for,” Kifowit said before the presentation.

Claim: "The most private question on this years form asks for an individuals race, and that question has been asked by every census since the 1790 census conducted under then-President George Washington."
Evidence Summary: Federal Judge Jesse M. Furman blocked a question about residents' citizenship from being added to the 2020 U.S. Census by Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. Federal law prohibits the release of an individual's census responses until 72 years after the data are collected. There is significant evidence that asking about people’s citizenship status, even on a form that carries no weight of law, makes vulnerable racial minorities less likely to complete the census form. Ross and the Trump administration say they added the question in response to a Justice Department request seeking better data for enforcing the Voting Rights Act.

Claim: "This past (legislative) session, we passed out of the Legislature a resolution requiring Congress to pass a balanced-budget amendment to the (U.S.) Constitution."
Evidence Summary: "We need to bring real efficiencies to state government," she says. "I won’t balance the budget on the backs of the starving, the sick, and the suffering" "There is power in elected members of the U.S. Congress speaking up in the interest of their constituency and the American public" "We will have votes next week — if government is shutdown, we’ve scheduled votes through Thursday," she adds. “The legislative process is a negotiation.”

Claim: "Thirty-seven percent of Central Falls retired police officers and firefighters are out on disability pensions; in most municipalities, about 5 percent of retirees collect disability pensions."
Evidence Summary: Cumbria Police is facing a £749,000 overspend after a rise in the number of officers retiring due to ill health. The retirements cost the force £80,000 in sick pay per officer - equivalent to two times their salary. Illinois’s constitution won’t allow existing pensions to be diminished or impaired, but future pensions must be made affordable. The pension bucket will never be filled so long as the bucket has holes that drain it faster than money can be added. We need answers, not nonanswers.

Claim: "In 2008, 33.2 percent of those who voted early on the last Sunday before Election Day were African-American, while 23.6 percent were Hispanic."
Evidence Summary: In 2016, a full 35 percent of Democratic primary voters were members of minority groups, and a full three-fifths of them were African-American. In more than half a dozen states voting on Super Tuesday, which in 2020 will fall on March 3, just a month after the primaries begin, black voters make up at least 10 percent of the Democratic electorate. The winner here will enter the March 3 Super Tuesday contests with a burst of momentum. South Carolina will mark the final clash before California, Texas and an array of similarly diverse states, comprising over 30 percent of race’s total delegates, vote just three days later.

Claim: "47 - New provisions ObamaCare charges the IRS with implementing, according to the Government Accountability Office."
Evidence Summary: The IRS has recalled more than 30,000 furloughed IRS employees. It has also announced it is easing penalties for people who underpaid their taxes last year. People without health insurance may be surprised to learn they are still on the hook when it comes to Obamacare’s so-called individual mandate. ‘It seems crazy to me that a powerful bank or lobby gets to bring their people back to do their work,’ said Marvin Friedlander, who served as a senior IRS official.

Claim: "Josh Mandel used to be pro-choice, now hes anti-choice. He used to be sympathetic towards gay and lesbians and now hes [not]."
Evidence Summary: Matheson's involvement in developing “conversion therapy” programs goes back decades. He has long been open about his attraction to men. His 2013 book, “Becoming a Whole Man,” chronicles his “six-year quest” to rid himself of “unwanted” homosexuality. In a statement Matheson emailed to Truth Wins Out on Sunday, he refused to renounce his past work or condemn what he called “mixed-orientation marriages.

Claim: "Obamacare-caused paperwork will annually absorb 190 million hours or more--and Mount Rushmore could be built 1,547 times over with the paperwork."
Evidence Summary: Americans for Tax Fairness says securing Trump's tax returns "is an important public policy objective and a legitimate exercise of Congress's oversight authority" Democrats plan to use a 1924 law to demand that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin turn over tax records to Richard Neal, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. "He said he’d keep the government closed for a very long period of time...months or even years," Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said of President Donald Trump. "It's very hard to see how progress will be made unless they open up the government," Schumer said.

Claim: "We have over 300,000,000 weapons, firearms in this country. Thats almost as big as the population."
Evidence Summary: The modern-day massacres are proof beyond a doubt that the government cannot protect us. "All these guys do is think and hatch plans and figure out how to get weapons. It's like a molotov cocktail waiting to explode" "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public" "We must deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets and the trauma that is turning our young people into victims and perpetrators of violence" "I could feel the pistol against my head… and hear them pulling the trigger"

Claim: "Of the topfive cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents."
Evidence Summary: Steve Holland, 59, of West Palm Beach, Florida, was ticketed between 2000 and 2014 for violations including speeding, driving an unsafe vehicle and not carrying proof of insurance. Holland was traveling north on Interstate 75 near Gainesville on Thursday when he veered into another car, lost control and went through the center divider, striking a southbound church van from Louisiana and another truck. Five children from ages 9 to 14 in the van died. The driver of the pickup, identified as a 41-year-old Georgetown, Kentucky, man was also killed in the collision.

Claim: "Frank Guinta voted to make middle class taxpayers pay over a $1,000 more a year in taxes."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez suggested funding her proposed “Green New Deal” by the marginal tax rate of 70 percent on those making $10 million or more. Former Obama administration official Julian Castro, who announced his presidential run on Saturday, cited a 90 percent tax rate on the wealthiest people in the past. “Oh, I can support folks at the top paying their fair share,” Castro told ABC News’ “This Week” earlier this month. � “Even during Reagan’s era in the 1980s, it was around 50 percent.”

Claim: "For years now, we have spent more money than we have taken in."
Evidence Summary: "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he says. "Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling" "We’re not going to stop and just say, ‘Oh this is a cost of doing business,’” he adds. "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to," he writes. "We've made a lot of progress.’ ‘We're in a good place.” “We're not in a bad place," the president adds.

Claim: "Since 2008, Gwinnett Countys population has grown 15 percent, while the county government staff has increased only 1 percent."
Evidence Summary: Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000 people. In percentage terms, Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. “The people here are friendly. And the weather is appealing.” — Lyndsay Hunsaker, explaining why she moved to Texas. � “My county, if you look at it, is very rural,” Ed Jeffords explained, pointing to a map across from his desk. ‘I have built a cabinet of people who bring with them experiences I don’t share, from communities I did not come from, with expertise I don't have, because to lead well, all of Illinois must be represented in the decision making.’ — Wayne county administrator.

Claim: "The CDC issued a report commissioned by President Obama just earlier this year, and it found some very inconvenient facts. Armed citizens are less likely harmed by attackers. Effectiveness of gun control laws is mixed. Gun buybacks dont work."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik’s commentary distorted a few facts, Yvonne Smith says. She says it is true firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths. But 60 percent of those were suicides, she says. Smith: expanding access to firearms is tantamount to pouring gas on a raging fire. It's a bad idea. More guns equals more violence, she writes, and we're going blind into a “deadly future.“We don’t know what works … and we’re not looking," says Mark Rosenberg, a CDC researcher.

Claim: "Cuccinelli wants to make all abortion illegal, even in cases of rape and incest, even to protect a womans health."
Evidence Summary: Cuomo and the Legislature's top Democrats, Senate Majority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins and Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie, have sought passage of the Reproductive Health Act for years. Clinton called expanding women's rights "the great unfinished business of the 21st century" The law essentially codifies the landmark decision made in Roe v. Wade 46 years ago to allow abortion, thus protecting it in the event that Roe v Wade is overturned in the future, something which Democrats fear could occur under a conservative-led Supreme Court.

Claim: "Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Kamala Harris' law enforcement credentials were central to her appeal to voters. Now, as the Democratic party continues to reckon with its history of endorsing racist, ineffective criminal justice policies, her background has become a liability. Harris’s approach to sex work, police reform, prisoners’ rights and truancy reveal the tensions between her record in law enforcement and her current progressive rhetoric. She was asked on a feminist podcast why had she worked to shut down Backpage.com, a website sex workers used for advertisements.

Claim: "By the time you drink your coffee, an elephant is killed for its ivory tusks."
Evidence Summary: "What happened today in Tlahuelilpan must never happen again," Figueres says. "Let's see who gets tired first: Those who steal the fuel or us," he adds. "Somebody once told me that the rain will one day stop, but for me, the monsoon season lasted for so long that I forgot the sun existed," he says. “We tend to focus on the exceedingly urgent short term rather than the much larger consequences over the longer term.” “If you plan corporate strategy around this, then this is the result you get,” Figuere says.

Claim: "When Sarah Palin was in government, Barack Obama was a community organizer."
Evidence Summary: As a candidate, Obama demonstrated both the ability to speak about race and the skill to evade it. As president, Obama often chose race-neutral language while pressing for health care, criminal justice and immigration reform. Obama faced criticism both from those who said he was doing more for black Americans than for anyone else and those who say he was not doing enough. “I think [black voter] expectations for Obama were somewhat tempered,” former chief of staff for President Barack Obama says.

Claim: "Until the new Iran deal, China and Russia have never voted with us at the U.N. on any sanctions on Iran in the past."
Evidence Summary: “We will continue with those meetings just as we sent a delegation to China,” Pompeo said. “And what you’re seeing is an increasing move on the part of our traditional friends and partners in the region to hedge their bets,’ he said. The stark warning was immediately rejected by Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif of Iran, who shot back in a tweet that Tehran’s launch of space vehicles — and of missiles — is “NOT in violation of Res 2231”

Claim: "Insurers delayed an Illinois man's treatment, and he died because of it."
Evidence Summary: Ezekiel Emanuel, Justin Bekelman: The way to advance medical care for seriously ill patients is not to strong-arm insurers into paying for unproven treatments. They say doctors, researchers and scientists prove as quickly as possible what care is best, and then put it into practice widely once the conclusions are in. Emanuel: Let the doctors be the ones to navigate the bureaucratic hoops and then deliver the disappointing news to our patients. Bekkelman, Emanuel: At stake are the health of millions of Americans with complex and debilitating illness, billions in health care costs and affordability of health insurance.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton supported North American Free Trade Agreement), and she supported Chinas entrance into the World Trade Organization. She supported the job-killing trade deal with South Korea. She supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership."
Evidence Summary: Lori Wallach has written about trade, studied trade, lobbied on trade on Capitol Hill. She knows all about the nitty-gritty of how these trade agreements work, and has been a very vocal critic of the trade consensus. She is not a person who if I had to guess, thinks very highly of Donald Trump. I think she thinks quite lowly of him. It's pretty fascinating to hear someone who knows her stuff, talk about what Donald Trump is doing in the trade sphere. She doesn't think the Trump trade agenda's that bad.

Claim: "Says there are Ohio Turnpike workers getting paid $66,000 a year to collect tolls that machines might collect."
Evidence Summary: The case, New Prime v. Oliveira, involves a dispute between a trucking company and one of its drivers. Dominic Oliveira was required to complete 10,000 miles hauling freight for New Prime—for free, as an “apprentice” He was then compelled to complete another 30,000. miles as a “trainee,” for which he was paid about $4 an hour. Once he became a full-fledged driver, Oliveiro was designated as a contractor rather than an employee.

Claim: "Since being elected, (Tom Barrett) has dumped 8.2 billion gallons of raw sewage into Lake Michigan."
Evidence Summary: Ron DeSantis, the new Republican governor of Florida, is facing the first challenge to his fresh environmental approach. He is trying to wrest control of state water policy from industry interests, in stark contrast to his predecessor, Rick Scott. He has called for the mass resignation of Scott’s hand-picked team of water policy managers, after they defied his request to delay awarding an eight-year land lease extension to the sugar industry giant Florida Crystals in the fragile Everglades wetlands. The land is earmarked for a $1.6bn clean-water storage reservoir.

Claim: "An audit shows there are 6.5 million people who have active Social Security numbers who are 112 years of age or older,"
Evidence Summary: "Generation Z represents a huge potential for this country if we can find ways to encourage a greater number of them to serve," Heck said. Heck also cited the 48 million people age 65 and over, who represent about 15 percent of the U.S. population, as a "growing source of untapped potential" The commission is due to submit its final report — including recommendations on whether women should be required to register with Selective Service (the military draft) — in March 2020. The first such hearing is slated for Feb. 21 in Washington, D.C.

Claim: "Both China and Japan have surpassed us, with Japanese cars now getting an average of 45 miles to the gallon."
Evidence Summary: China is both the biggest manufacturer and the biggest market for cars globally. But after two decades of rapid expansion, sales fell in 2018 by 6% to 22.7 million units. The slump, shown in official data Monday, ended the growth that many foreign and domestic auto makers had expected to last for years to come. Facing saturation elsewhere, global auto makers have banked on China, the world’s largest car market. But now, the government is set to push the burden onto manufacturers, through a new "cap and trade" system.

Claim: "Since President Obama took office, our federal spending has increased by nearly 30 percent and our national debt has increased by almost 50 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026. The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion, and is expected to balloon above $1 billion next year.“We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.”

Claim: "Since President Obama took full control of Washington, every day, 13,000 more people have been put on food stamps."
Evidence Summary: Thanks to this administration’s pro-growth policies, over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president's leadership. The 38 million Americans on food benefits will be getting their February benefits a bit early because of the government shutdown.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama will not utter the words radical Islamic terrorism and as matter of policy, nobody in the administration will say the words radical Islamic terrorism."
Evidence Summary: Pompeo directly repudiated Obama’s 2009 Cairo speech, which was an overture by the then-new president to the Islamic world. “In falsely seeing ourselves as a force for what ails the Middle East, we were timid in asserting ourselves when the time and our partners demanded it,” Pompeo said. It's unclear what Pompeo meant by abandonment of "ideals," but Obama's speech did take a stand against the use of "torture" to interrogate terrorism suspects.

Claim: "Says Maggie Hassan pays zero property taxes on her $500,000 home."
Evidence Summary: Warren touted her anti-corruption proposal and her push to build 3.2 million housing units across the country. She also called for legalizing marijuana, repairing the criminal justice system and touted “I believe in science.” Ocasio-Cortez has suggested a 70 percent tax on the ultra wealthy to fund programs to battle climate change. On Tuesday, former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker compared the multimillionaires’ tax to taking money from fifth-graders after doing their chores, then referenced the fall of the Soviet Union.

Claim: "In the U.S. agreement with the Cuban government, no commitment was made to allowing the establishment of political parties or to even begin the semblance of a transition to a democracy."
Evidence Summary: Cuba's ruling Communist Party celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Cuban revolution on Tuesday. The island nation is stable, having overcome existential threats, including the Bay of Pigs invasion and Cuban missile crisis. Cuba has managed its first major political transitions, following the death in 2016 of its defining leader, Fidel Castro. For the first time since 1959, Cuba is ruled by someone other than a Castro, and it has handled the transition without the drama or bloodshed that other revolutionary states have experienced after the death of their patriarchs.

Claim: "Ryan Sittons company accepted over $650,000 in Obama stimulus dollars."
Evidence Summary: Americans for Tax Fairness says securing Trump's tax returns "is an important public policy objective and a legitimate exercise of Congress's oversight authority" Democrats plan to use a 1924 law to demand that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin turn over tax records to Richard Neal, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Obama’s plan is a “classic example of why you don’t want the federal government getting involved in industry,” said Fox News' Brooke Singman.

Claim: "For four days in Denver, the Democrats were afraid to use the words 'Islamic terrorism.'"
Evidence Summary: Sean Hannity: It's been over two years since the 2016 election and the Democratic Party still won't read the memo. People in Middle America like Joe Biden’s family in Pennsylvania didn’t buy what the Democrats were selling in 2016, he says. Hannity: Democrats are politicizing what is our national security. The worst part of this is Democrats are going in one direction, but they haven't stopped to notice the rest of the country isn't following, he adds. The Democratic Party is in trouble, Hannity says.

Claim: "A former Clinton administration official and other economists agree that if you keep extending these temporary unemployment benefits, youre just going to extend joblessness even more."
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. The folks who created all those new jobs last month, on the other hand, have put their very livelihoods at stake. They’re the ones hanging up the “now hiring” signs. Those who continue to predict an imminent recession despite the evidence have only their reputations on the line.

Claim: "In the past decade, K-12 funding has grown six times faster than the rate of enrollment."
Evidence Summary: "We need the government to start focusing on our education," Kifowit says. "Profit isn’t everything,” she says. “We want our schools to improve and we’ll do anything we can to help.” "We are far from the $7 billion we need, but the belief that schools are not getting paid is fundamentally wrong," says Martire. "The idea tonight is to educate the public more about what the single largest portion of their property taxes goes for," he says.

Claim: "Will (HB2)threaten federal funding for public schools under Title IX? No, according to a federal court which has looked at a similar issue."
Evidence Summary: The law known as Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 has charted the evolution of sex equality in America. Initially intended to shatter gender quotas for hiring and admissions, it became a vital weapon against limits on opportunities for women and girls. Now these protections are under threat not just for college students, but for child victims in K-12 schools, too. The proposed new rules would make it harder to prevent that abuse from happening and harder to hold schools and perpetrators accountable when it does.

Claim: "Some of the things that (Megyn Kelly) said, I didnt say."
Evidence Summary: "You're talking about women, you should be talking about all women, including Jewish women and conservative women," co-host Meghan McCain said. "We didn't make those remarks," Mallory responded. "I don't agree with many of Minister Farrakhan’s statements," Nadler said on CNN. "It is too early to talk about that intelligently. We have to follow the facts. That's why it's important to protect the Mueller investigation," he said.

Claim: "Monica Wehby and Jason Conger are causing devastating consequences for nearly 23,000 Oregonians looking for work."
Evidence Summary: Hundreds of thousands of federal workers are still reporting to their jobs, but not collecting paychecks. These workers are not only falling behind on their bills, they are arriving to work stressed out and some struggle to concentrate. “People are getting increasingly worried. The mood is bleak,” Bureau of Prisons worker Jeff Wright said. "Playing around with our jobs like they're a political game," said Kate Zimmerman, whose husband is a furloughed federal worker. "Our problem is that we don’t have enough people, yet we've got good paying jobs," she said.

Claim: "After the U.S.-led military alliance ejected Saddam Husseins forces from Kuwait in 1991, the Kuwaitis never paid us."
Evidence Summary: Reprieve director Maya Foa said: “Britain has provided the Bahraini regime with millions of pounds in security assistance. The least the government can do is demand the end of the arbitrary detention of and torture of peaceful dissenters” Brown later maintained that his extensive work with the Soviets on the arms race was not wasted. “Some of these came to visible fruition 10 years later during Desert Storm, which reversed Saddam Hussein’s occupation of Kuwait,” he wrote.

Claim: "Among the nations 51 largest metropolitan areas, Milwaukee is the only one where the poverty rate is more than four times greater in the city than it is in the suburbs."
Evidence Summary: The Brookings economists Clara Hendrickson, Mark Muro, and William Galston recently summarized the past decade in employment growth, which has occurred almost entirely in big cities. In some ways, a city isn’t a bad place to be poor: Social services are often more easily accessible than in rural areas. But that effect is likely offset by the enormous burden of big-city housing costs, which further decrease the promise of the Greyhound theory. The MIT economist David Autor raised another issue: Moving to the big city might not be a golden ticket after all.

Claim: "The Clintons now charge the Secret Service $10,000 monthly rent for the use of (a) Secret Service residence and that rent is just about equal to their mortgage payment."
Evidence Summary: 7,000 employees of the Secret Service were scheduled to be paid on Friday. It would have been the first paycheck of the new year, and the first after the holiday gift-giving season. Trump does not appear to have taken any action to help Secret Service agents with mortgage, rent or day-to-day living expenses. “They are asking you to put your life on the line and not paying you — it’s ridiculous,” said one Secret Service veteran.

Claim: "Says that over the past 20 years, Texas public school spending rose 142 percent and per-pupil spending more than tripled when adjusted for inflation."
Evidence Summary: The teachers' union is demanding still more money even as the number of students instructors have to teach declines. Many observers say that an agreement between the union and the district will ultimately require more money from Mr. Newsom’s budget. “The idea tonight is to educate the public more about what the single largest portion of their property taxes goes for,” Kifowit said. The new funding formula is based on the cost of implementing practices, which research has shown enhance achievement for K-12.

Claim: "Says U.S. Senate Democrats have gone without any budget at all for more than 1,000 days."
Evidence Summary: Republicans were in charge of both chambers of Congress and the presidency last year. Yet Oct. 1 rolled around without a budget in place for roughly a quarter of the federal government. Democrats decided long ago that if voters wouldn't give them absolute power, they would import those who would. All the bills not passed to fund the government were due in 2018. It was Republicans who didn't do the most basic job of government. The partial government shutdown is in its third week and less than two days before the Treasury Department says it will be unable to borrow.

Claim: "Saysthe State Department has had half a year to respond to a Benghazi document request, yet I have not gotten a single, solitary scrap of paper."
Evidence Summary: A federal judge ruled Tuesday that Susan Rice and Ben Rhodes must answer written questions about the State Department's response to the deadly 2012 terror attack in Benghazi, Libya. The ruling is part of an ongoing legal battle over whether Hillary Clinton sought to deliberately evade public record laws by using a private email server while secretary of state. The lawsuit by Judicial Watch – now with the U.S. Court of Appeals District of Columbia Circuit – was first filed in 2014 in an effort to obtain records related to the Benghazi attack.

Claim: "Republican leaders said ""no"" to ""tax cuts for 95% of working Americans."""
Evidence Summary: As deficits balloon following their tax cuts, GOP leaders suggest curbing the massive Social Security and Medicare programs. But the demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget, and the government projects the number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. If growth fades in the coming years — as many economists believe it will — the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more.

Claim: "200,000 students attempt suicide every year on college campuses."
Evidence Summary: Bristol, a high-performing university, has had 12 confirmed or suspected suicides since October 2016. At least 95 UK university students took their lives in 2016-17, the latest figures show. In 2017, 13 percent of 12- to 17-year-olds had depression, up from 8 percent in 2010. One in 10 college-aged Americans is affected, according to U.S. government data. Rates among teen girls doubled from 2007 to 2015, climbing to 5 per 100,000. For girls, it is up an astonishing 82%.

Claim: "For the first time in eight years, our budget also increases funding for persons with disabilities by $36 million to help more disabled people receive community-based services."
Evidence Summary: Governor's budget includes $80.7bn for K-12 schools and community colleges. It also includes $500m to encourage local governments to build emergency shelters and navigation centers for the homeless. Of the $209-bn budget, 53% goes toward education, from kindergarten through public state-funded higher education, and 28% goes to health and human services. “This is a reflection of our values,” Newsom said in his two-hour address unveiling the budget Thursday.

Claim: The majority of (the American people) voted for a Democratic House.
Evidence Summary: Pelosi needed an “absolute majority” of votes cast from the House floor to regain her old job on Thursday. With 220 votes out of 430, she easily beat Republican Rep. Kevin McCarthy. But 15 Democrats – many of them newly elected lawmakers – didn’t cast a vote for Pelosi, with 12 of those lawmakers voting for someone other than her. Others getting votes from Democrats included former Vice President Joe Biden, Georgia Rep. John Lewis and former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams.

Claim: "Says Donald Trump was forced to file for bankruptcy not once, not twice, four times."
Evidence Summary: The narrative of Trump as self-made is simply false. Trump has downplayed the role his father, real estate developer Fred Trump, played in his success. A comprehensive New York Times investigation last year estimated that over the course of his lifetime, the younger Trump received more than $413 million in today’s dollars from his father. The federal bankruptcy code bars the professionals who work on bankruptcies from hiding their stakes. The regulations require the disclosure of such connections between companies to ensure fair treatment of all parties.

Claim: "Says that in his first 17 months as president, the United States doubled its world-leading $500 million a year commitment to fighting global AIDS."
Evidence Summary: Since Gavi was founded, the number of children under the age of 5 dying in low- and middle-income countries has dropped by about 40%. Meanwhile, polio cases have almost disappeared. When Melinda and I began investing in these funds back in 2000, our goal was to save lives and stop suffering, and by that measure these institutions have succeeded beyond our wildest dreams. French President Emmanuel Macron is launching the latest round to replenish the Global Fund in Paris. It is being called "a decisive moment"

Claim: "Rep. Jim Renaccis plan to end Medicare also puts nursing home care for 3,000 seniors in the district in immediate jeopardy."
Evidence Summary: The VA is preparing to shift billions of dollars from government-run hospitals to private health care providers. The idea of creating a single national health insurance program for all Americans has been a big topic of political conversation since 2016. The Kaiser Family Foundation found broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care, including letting some people buy into Medicare or Medicaid. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government- run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn't otherwise qualify.

Claim: "When we passed (the stand your ground law), we said it portends horrific events when peoples lives were put into these situations."
Evidence Summary: “Stand your ground” laws stretch the traditional Castle Doctrine beyond the boundaries of the home. On the surface at least, the laws appear to grant all law-abiding persons permission to use lethal force, without first trying to retreat. Recent social science, public health, and legal research demonstrates that the laws increase homicide rates while amplifying the gender and race biases of our criminal justice system. "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets and the trauma that is turning our young people into victims"

Claim: "Says his administration put more border patrol agents on the U.S.-Mexico border than at any time in history, and the flow of undocumented workers across the border is actually lower than its been in 40 years."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump made several false claims during a trip to the U.S-Mexico border on Thursday. Border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades. Border Patrol agents caught just under 400,000 people trying to illegally cross the border in 2017, and just over 300,000 in 2016. From 1983 to 2006, border apprehensions topped one million 19 times, with the agency setting a record in 2000 with 1,643,679 apprehensions, according to Customs and Border Patrol data. In 2017, border-crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971.

Claim: "On Syria, alot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off."
Evidence Summary: U.S. envoy to Syria says he could not be effective in carrying out White House instructions. McGurk said a "sustainable" plan had been in place to defeat ISIS and begin serious negotiations with parties in Syria, including Russia. "The minute you announce to the world that you're leaving, a vacuum opens up and all the other powers in the region start making different calculations," he said. Trump's unmediated impulsiveness eviscerated our Middle East policy, benefiting Syria’s most malign actors.

Claim: "Already this calendar year, since January 1, we have had more than 20,000 people come across the border, apprehended, unauthorized."
Evidence Summary: NBC reported Monday that according to statistics from the U.S. Department of Customs and Border Protection only six immigrants on a terror watchlist have been detained in six months at the Mexican border. “The number of arrests at the border are down dramatically from what they were in the year 2000,” the president’s former chief of staff said. The president “needs to create a sense of crisis to justify this costly boondoggle,’ said former RNC Chairman Tom Sykes. Trump said in 2005 that "we simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States"

Claim: "In an interview with the Chicago TribunesEditorial Board, Comptroller Leslie Munger says that in order to balance a budget, the state would have to cut social services completely."
Evidence Summary: Government programs intended to help some of the most vulnerable people in the country are facing widespread uncertainty and some say they are running out of money. Health services for Native Americans in urban areas, domestic violence shelter and programs that help people struggling with homelessness are all scraping by with whatever was left in their budgets during the shutdown. "A safety net that has a frayed bottom to it makes people much less, feel more financially fragile and financially vulnerable than they already are," a professor at the University of Wisconsin- Madison said.

Claim: "Iowa, for good reason, for constitutional reasons, for reasons related to the Lord, should be the first caucus and primary."
Evidence Summary: “Our founders gave us a process to amend the constitution, should the passage of time change our view. Let’s begin that process now. I believe Iowans recognize the power of redemption,” Reynolds says. Delaney defends a process that requires politicians to meet voters in their living rooms and coffee shops rather than run nationally. “If you had a primary on one day and everyone voted the same day they’d determine the nominees. So I think there’t a valuable role for a few states to go early,’ he says.

Claim: The unemployment rate among blacks in Texas is 9.5% -- far more than double white unemployment -- and wages have fallen for black workers in Texas since 2000.
Evidence Summary: African-Americans are more likely than other racial or ethnic groups to work for the federal government. They constitute 18 percent of federal workers and 13 percent of the population. Black-owned businesses disproportionately rely upon government contracts, though they remain underrepresented among federal contractors. The profound racial wealth gap in the U.S. makes it far more difficult for the average black American to sustain a long period without a paycheck, as compared with white Americans. An average of 220,000 jobs were added each month last year, the best performance since 2015.

Claim: "Children are crossing the border because President Barack Obama said if you come, youre going to be able to stay, because were not going to enforce the law."
Evidence Summary: The president's speech on the U.S.-Mexico border was a predictable retread. He said the situation is a humanitarian crisis, a crisis of the heart and arisis of the soul. He also said that Democrats are stonewalling efforts to end the partial government shutdown. Trump also quoted former President Barack Obama, who said in 2005: "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected, undocumented, unchecked" The president's remarks didn't change any minds, and the networks should have denied him air time.

Claim: "Over the past decade, the big five oil companies --- BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil and Shell -- made a total profit of nearly $1 trillion."
Evidence Summary: U.S. crude dropped from about $76 a barrel in early October to a low of $42 a barrel on Dec. 24 as investors worried about slowing economic growth and a supply glut. The modest recovery in oil prices has sent energy companies higher, and the S&P 500 index of energy companies has risen 7 percent so far in 2019. Saudi Aramco, the world's top oil producer, is looking to acquire natural gas assets in the United States and is willing to spend "billions of dollars" to become a global gas player.

Claim: "When Mitt Romney was governor, the fact is that the average income for a family in Massachusetts went up by $5,500."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has a history of flip-flopping on a wide variety of issues. He's shown himself as a supremely transactional figure, flexible in altering his words and his positions to align with self-interest as the occasion demands. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. He was all too happy to accept Trump’s endorsements during his own presidential run in 2012 and in his race for the Senate last year. In between those two endorsements, Romney blasted Trump as “a phony, a fraud”

Claim: "The Republican plan for tax cuts is to give each millionaire -- the top 1 percent of income in this country -- $83,347 a year in tax cuts."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez recently floated the idea of a 70 percent marginal tax rate on America’s highest earners. But is it even that good for everyone else? High taxes wouldn’t rake in that much cash, and they might even scare taxpayers out of the country. The idea that wealth “trickles down” from the richest to those less privileged has been bashed by billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who has argued that people like him should pay more in taxes.

Claim: "A proposed revenue smart cap gives Floridians a voice, requiring a 60 percent vote by citizens in order to impose a new tax, fee, license, fine, charge or assessment."
Evidence Summary: There is already a bubbling dispute over how much of a say, if any, lawmakers should get in deciding how the constitutional amendment gets implemented. Activists who supported the amendment say it is “self-executing’ and that neither lawmakers nor state officials get a say in how to implement it. The sales tax revenue is expected to generate about 49 percent of the 2019 General Fund revenues. “We’ll have to find ways and methods of increasing our revenues and also cutting expenses, without sacrificing on the quality of services that our residents deserve,” said Village Board member Michael Manzo.

Claim: "Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary."
Evidence Summary: The bill is a direct response to the story of Johnny Bobbitt, Kate McClure and her boyfriend Mark D'Amico, who were all charged with theft by deception. The trio claimed in a GoFundMe post that went viral thatBobbitt - who was homeless - gave McClure his last $20 so she could get gas while stranded in Philidelphia. 14,000 people donated $400,000. Authorities began an investigation after BobbITT complained he had not received any of the promised money.

Claim: "Weve created more than 850,000 jobs, more than all the other states combined."
Evidence Summary: Over 4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump took office. Lowest unemployment in half a century and earnings rising at fastest rate in a decade. Manufacturing industry has boomed after suffering for years. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs added added under Trump, compared to a net loss of over 200,000 under Obama. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Obama, who was elected in the teeth of the worst recession in living memory, added 10m jobs.

Claim: "If 20 million illegals vote, you can kiss the Second Amendment goodbye."
Evidence Summary: "I'll be a human being again. I'll be an American citizen again," Robert Eckford said. The ballot measure went into effect Tuesday, overturning a ban that netted Florida the highest number of disenfranchised felons in the nation. It potentially increases the pool of eligible voters by as many as 1.4 million people in a battleground state infamous for its narrow margins in key elections.“Whenever there is a minority trying to impose their extremist ideology ... we have to intervene regardless of their numbers”

Claim: "When Republicans last controlled the presidency and Congress, the number of people on food stamps (and) the number of people in low-income housing went through the roof."
Evidence Summary: In 2016, 96 percent of Trump supporters expressed generalized anger at federal policies. Much of this animus is rooted in a race-based contempt for the allegedly useless “other’ The top 1 percent of Americans haven’t controlled this much wealth since the 1920s. The Baby Bonds and LIFT proposals would remedy this by boosting wealth and paychecks, respectively, for a one-two economic punch.. Whether on the campaign trail for 2020 or in designing a congressional agenda for the year ahead, Democrats should frame their economic agenda.

Claim: "This year, the Austin City Council granted a small homestead property tax exemption of $5,000... applied equally to everyone. And we also granted an exemption for the elderly and the disabled members of the community."
Evidence Summary: The district has applied for $2 million through the program in fiscal year 2019. The district successfully applied for a series of construction- and energy conservation-related bonds as part of the $84.2 million approved by voters in a referendum in April 2015. The owner of a Franklin Park home valued at $150,000 will save about $15 total in annual property taxes due to the abatements. The village portion of the bill for such a home in the 2018 tax year was projected at $790.86 when the board passed its estimated tax levy in November.

Claim: "Says President Obama was wrong about Muslims historical contributions to mankind, such as algebra (actually that was the ancient Babylonians), the compass (that was the Chinese), pens (the Chinese again) and medical discoveries."
Evidence Summary: Ruben Navarrette: King wrong to say Obama didn't say radical Islamic terrorism doesn't stem from ideology. He says Obama did say 9/11 terrorists did not represent the full face of Islam. Navarrete: King is wrong to judge people on their individual merits, not their ancestry. He said King should accept that our country is made up of all different faiths and ethnicities, which is what makes America unique and special, he said. The Republican Party's vision was central to the creation of the GOP, he says.

Claim: "As a congressman, Mark Neumann voted four times to increase our debt."
Evidence Summary: State Rep. Anne Stava-Murray of Naperville of Illinois voted “present. She had promised to do so and campaigned by touting she hadn’t taken money from Madigan. Madigan is the nation’s longest-serving speaker, has held the top House post for all but two years since 1983. The new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it's O.K. to be mad about being in debt, says Julian Zelizer. He says politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters.

Claim: "If parents ""don't have health insurance that Senator Obama wants them to have (for their children), they will be fined."""
Evidence Summary: The administration estimated that the government would save about $900 million a year on subsidies, and that 100,000 consumers would drop their coverage. Newsom is calling for legislation that would make many more people eligible for assistance. In order to offset the cost of those new subsidies, Newsom wants to reinstate the financial penalty for people who do not have insurance. This would make California the fourth state to adopt an individual mandate with a penalty; Massachusetts, New Jersey and Vermont already have such a policy in law.

Claim: "Since (welfare reform) was signed into law, the number of families living in extreme poverty has more than doubled."
Evidence Summary: Wages haven’t risen in forty years, even as costs of health care, tuition, and housing have soared. The middle class is living paycheck to paycheck. Black and Latino households have it even worse than most. The Baby Bonds and LIFT proposals would remedy this by boosting wealth and paychecks, respectively, for a one-two economic punch. Whether on the campaign trail for 2020 or in designing a congressional agenda for the year ahead, Democrats should frame their economic agenda in a truly progressive and race forward manner.

Claim: "Theres a tax credit of $2,400 to bond [former inmates] that an employer would get for hiring a convicted felon. Theres a federal bonding program -- you can get $5,000 to $25,000 in federal money to hire a convicted felon. And theres federal grants for felons to set up their own small businesses."
Evidence Summary: Nearly 77 percent of those released are rearrested within five years, according to a National Institute of Justice report. The For the People Act aims to fix this problem by automatically restoring voting rights once someone is released from prison. Currently, 13 states and the District of Columbia do this, but having a federal statute would help make the process easier for everyone involved. Forty-eight states don’t allow people with felony convictions to vote while they are incarcerated, but states have widely different policies on when and how ex-felons can get back their right to vote.

Claim: "Ann Kuster supports the government takeover of healthcare, which robs Medicare of over $700 billion."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., told CBS News' “60 Minutes” in an interview broadcast Sunday that she is “a radical” “If that’s what radical means, then call me a radical,” she said. She also responded to critics who have pointed out factual errors in some of her tweets. Interviewer Anderson Cooper noted that her claim the Pentagon's accounting errors could have funded most of "Medicare for All" received "Four Pinocchios" from The Washington Post.

Claim: "While Rob Portman relies on his super PAC and a handful of billionaires to do his dirty work, we dont have a super PAC, and quite frankly, we dont want one that spends millions to spew out lies and distortions."
Evidence Summary: More than three-quarters of newly elected congressional Democrats pledge to say no to corporate PACs. The performance of candidates like former Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-Texas) established the political potency of swearing off super and corporate PACs, although not without some pushback. End Citizens United, a political action committee that rallied congressional candidates to swear off corporate PAC donations, is hoping to convince Democratic candidates in 2020 to do the same. “We’re hoping to create a domino effect. Any outliers will stick out like a sore thumb,” said the group’s president.

Claim: This (Ebola) is not as bad as SARSwas in 2003.
Evidence Summary: "It's not unuseful information, but it's not altogether convincing of reservoir status," a virologist says. Most experts say the natural animal host for Ebola is some type of fruit bat, not one that eats insects. The last time there was an extended interruption to the Ebola response, the number of cases surged dramatically. “I think [the responders] are hanging on by a thread,” says J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center.

Claim: "A couple of debates ago, (Donald Trump) said if you dont support socialized health care, youre heartless."
Evidence Summary: O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," she said. Trump has boasted about raising money for King’s campaigns, as the Times noted. He once called King a “smart person with, really, the right views on almost everything,” but has not joined them in doing so.

Claim: "Ethanol reduced gas prices by 89 cents per gallon in 2010, and if ethanol disappeared, gas prices could rise by as much as 92 percent."
Evidence Summary: Ethanol makers slashed production rates last year due in part to negative profit margins. Cargill Inc. cited "historically low ethanol prices" as one of the reasons one of its segments posted lower quarterly earnings from a year ago. U.S. ethanol inventories this month climbed to a near-record of over 23 million barrels even as output slowed to the lowest in over six months, Energy Information Administration data showed. Still, more reductions in ethanol output were necessary as supplies continued to outpace demand.

Claim: "The sequester wont consider whether were cutting some bloated program that has outlived its usefulness, or a vital service that Americans depend on every single day. It doesnt make those distinctions."
Evidence Summary: As long as they think the shutdown will hurt Trump politically, they could not care less how much the shutdown hurts the country and its people. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors. Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling," Sen. Dick Durbin said. "Why punish people who are applying for food stamps because the president is having a temper tantrum?" Sen. TIM KAINE said.

Claim: Final election 2016 numbers: Trump won the popular vote.
Evidence Summary: Trump misstates the Electoral College vote in his 2016 presidential race against Hillary Clinton. The official count was 304 to 227, according to an Associated Press tally of the electoral votes in every state. Clinton won the popular vote, receiving nearly 2.9 million more votes than Trump after racking up more lopsided victories in big states such as New York and California. Trump has a lot of work to do to be able to reassemble the coalition that voted for him narrowly to win in the Electoral Electoral College in 2016.

Claim: "The Obama administration ""was successful in rushing a massive spending bill through Congress in just two days after which it sat on the president's desk for three days, while he was away on vacation."""
Evidence Summary: McConnell was able to deliver a unanimous short-term spending bill to Trump’s desk without the roughly $5.3 billion for the border wall just before Christmas. Under that proposal, the government would have been kept open until February. But the president changed his mind abruptly because of pressure from conservative activists and prominent media figures to deliver on his campaign promise. Yarmuth said McConnell doesn’t want to take another risk given how unpredictable the president is known to be. House Democrats plan to start passing individual spending bills this week to reopen government agencies.

Claim: "In 1992, Barack Obama directed ""Project Vote - an arm of ACORN that also encouraged voter registration."""
Evidence Summary: The bill looks to expand access to the polls by creating automatic voter registration, expanding early voting and simplifying absentee voting. The bill would also restore protections included in the 1965 Voting Rights Act, and protect against efforts by state election officials to purge voting rolls. “We heard loud and clear the American people feel left out and want us to clean the culture of corruption, and they want it to be easy, not hard, to register to vote in America,” Democracy Reform Task Force Chairman Rep. John Sarbanes said.

Claim: "In this country, we have a 25 percent dropout rate."
Evidence Summary: 4 out of 10 students who start college and don't finish in at least six years. The percentage of Americans who started college but didn't earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960. An estimated 20 percent of working adults have some college credits, but no degree. “When girls are left behind, half the population is left behind. We have to do something. We need the government to start focusing on our education," says Georgia State's Heathman, who teaches at the university.

Claim: "In the last seven years of my tenure, Texas created 1.5 million new jobs. As a matter of fact, without Texas, America would have lost 400,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Over 4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump took office, with the lowest unemployment in half a century. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Obama, who was elected in the teeth of the worst recession in living memory, added 10m jobs. Last year was America's best manufacturing performance since 1997 - since before China joined the World Trade Organization and sucked all those jobs away. Trump has delivered his populist promise, for exactly the people he prioritized: the manufacturing industry has boomed.

Claim: "Every 20 seconds, a child dies because they lack access to clean water and sanitation."
Evidence Summary: In India, nearly 400 children under the age of 5 die every day because of poor sanitation, according to UNICEF. Poor sanitation alone leads to an estimated 280,000 deaths related to diarrhea. Innovations ranging from restrooms on wheels that also boast Wi-Fi access and cafes, to digital sensors in human waste that seek health trends are being tested in Pune, a city of 4 million in western India. In Kenya, one in five children still don’t have access to life-saving vaccines.

Claim: "Fleeing Syria, a million children are now refugees."
Evidence Summary: More than 1 million children have fled the country, building new lives in refugee camps scattered in Uganda and other neighbors of South Sudan. Aid workers are concerned about the spread of disease in overcrowded camps, and have received anecdotal reports of respiratory illnesses. About half of the 2.9 million people living in Idlib and the surrounding areas are displaced, according to the UN. Children, who make up half of those displaced, have often been forced to move up to seven times and are already in poor health.

Claim: "Right now, our corrections department charges taxpayers between $30,000 and $40,000 a year per person we lock up, she said. Thats actually cheap when you compare us to the rest of the country."
Evidence Summary: Federal correctional officers make between $26,000 and $61,000. Young is trying to persuade some of the hardest-hit employees, like a husband and wife who are both federal correctional officers. "Here you want a wall on the outside but you're not worried about the inside," Young added. In many jurisdictions, the list of fees, ranging from a few dollars here to $10, $20, $30 or a hundred dollars there, can add up to hundreds, even thousands of dollars.

Claim: "If the government shuts down, all military personnel will continue to serve and accrue pay but will not actually be paid until appropriations are available."
Evidence Summary: "Holding the pay of federal employees and contractors hostage is not a helpful way to conduct the business of our government," the secretaries wrote. The Senate is scheduled to hold its first votes on bills to end the government shutdown since December. The group said that the department risks losing talented men and women, but shouldn't rely on charity from others. They also pointed out that members of the Coast Guard, by law, cannot quit or seek full-time, outside employment. "This is unconscionable," they wrote.

Claim: "Portland, Ore., has never gotten over 12 to 15 percent ridership of its public transit system in the past 12 years."
Evidence Summary: Ridership has fallen by by 21 percent since 2012, according to the CTA. Half of the new jobs created between 2005 and 2015 were located within a half-mile of a CTA or Metra station. The number of hospitalizations that would have been prevented by regularly scheduled doctor visits for every 1,000 Medicare enrollees – was given half weighting. Median household income, median home value, average travel time to work, employment-to-population ratio, median property taxes paid, and average unemployment rate are all five-year estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau.

Claim: "None of the polls being conducted right now have us on the top line. None of them. Its always Trump and Clinton and then second question, third question. ... If we were included in the top line, as Johnson/Trump/Clinton, wed be at 20 percent."
Evidence Summary: Nearly half of Americans -- 48 percent -- say they have no confidence “at all” in the president compared with 37 percent who say that about Pelosi. Thirty percent have noconfidence in Republican lawmakers in Congress versus 29 percent for the Democrats. The poll was taken at the beginning of the month, just after Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) lambasted the president in an editorial. Trump responded with a tweet calling on Romney to “be happy for all Republicans” and to be “a TEAM player & WIN!”

Claim: "98 percent of American families make under $250,000 a year."
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. Over this same period, the median Black family saw their wealth drop by more than half. Meanwhile, the number of households with $10m or more skyrocketed by 856%. If the trajectory of the past three decades continues, by 2050 the median white family will have $174,000 of wealth, while Latino median wealth will be just $8,600 – and Black medianwealth will head downward to $600.

Claim: "The Clinton Foundation gives less than 10(percent in direct aid). In 2013, they raised 140 million bucks, gave $9 million to people in direct aid."
Evidence Summary: The Obama Foundation secured million-dollar donations from five new donors in the last months of 2018, newly released contribution records show. In 2017, the foundation raised about $232 million in contributions from private donors. It spent the bulk of its income that year — about $21.3 million — on operations, salaries and programs. The newest donors to pledge more than $1 million include the Boeing Company; Fidelity Donor Advised Fund; the Gibbons Scattone Family Foundation; Lisa & Douglas Goldman Fund.

Claim: "Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, U.S. health care spending grew at 3.9 percent for the last three years, the lowest growth rate in over 50 years."
Evidence Summary: About 7 million fewer Americans had health insurance at the end of last year compared with two years prior. The share of people who are uninsured is the highest it’s been since 2014, according to a new survey. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage.

Claim: "Under President Barack Obama, 8.3 (million) fewer Americans are working today than there were four years ago."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. As an African-American who cares about closing income gaps between advantaged and disadvantaged groups, I appreciated the shoutout, even if it seemed to contradict his usual sunny boasts about black and Hispanic employment.

Claim: "Under Republicans, recessions happen four times as frequently as under Democrats."
Evidence Summary: The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. In reality, presidents don’t control the business cycle, and to Trump’s recent frustration, they don't control the Federal Reserve, either. Those who continue to predict an imminent recession have only their reputations on the line, and partisanship ensures that liberals will ignore their most extraordinary blunders.

Claim: "Teenage births cost Texas taxpayers $1.1 billion in health care, foster careand lost tax revenue in 2010 alone."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom has unveiled a proposal to invest $1.8 million in early childhood education, and another to extend parental leave to six months. Newsom acknowledged the state’s “stagnant wages,’’ rising rents, “inequality of wealth,” and “we have a homeless epidemic that should keep every one of us up at night” But as Newsom begins his leadership of a state dominated by Democrats, he also issued a stern warning about overspending.

Claim: "Says Donald Trump, in his campaign announcement speech, also said, And many of them (Mexicans) are good people. You keep leaving that out of your quote."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump gave a prime-time speech pushing for a U.S.-Mexico border wall. Fox News anchor Shepard Smith challenged many of Trump's claims by using the government's own numbers. Trump also tried to pit Americans of color against undocumented immigrants in his quest for public sympathy. He also repeated misleading claims that Mexico would indirectly pay for the wall through a revised trade deal, an assertion that has been debunked by leading economists. Trump skipped over controversial claims made by his top officials that attempted to link terrorism with migration across the southern border.

Claim: We came out against Deepwater and everybody is now paying for [the project] in their electric bills.
Evidence Summary: Despite a state of constant crisis for infrastructure, other spending priorities -- often for more immediate needs -- mean it's almost inevitable that maintenance and investment get shifted to the back burner. Despite this, the Trump administration has still found a way to plow ahead with its “energy dominance” agenda. The failure to hold upcoming Gulf lease sales would “have a negative impact to the Treasury and negatively impact investment in the U.S. Offshore Gulf of Mexico,” BOEM wrote in its updated plan.

Claim: "Due to over-incarceration in 1950, two out of three young black men were in the workforce. Today, its one out of three black men are in the workforce."
Evidence Summary: More whites use drugs in the USA, but more than half of the people in state prisons on drug offenses are people of color. The lifetime likelihood that an individual born in 2001 will end up in prison also varies greatly by race. When Barr was attorney general in the 1990s, dogmatic, tough-on-crime policies held virtually the same position that progressive policies do now. On Tuesday, Barr acknowledged that his policies created today's mass incarceration problem, but he failed to completely renounce them.

Claim: "I am the only person in this field who is against amnesty. Every other person in this field wants to allow people who are here illegally to be able to stay here, in one form or another."
Evidence Summary: "We say no to scapegoating immigrants, and yes to keeping families together," he says. "The wall remains the wrong direction for us as a country," he adds. "There is no way in hell that caging babies is a smart or a right or good way to do it" "No, amnesty is not part of my offer. It is a three-year extension of DACA. Amnesty will be used only on a much bigger deal, whether on immigration or something else," Obama says.

Claim: "Says because of his actions, Wisconsin property taxes today are lower than they were four years ago."
Evidence Summary: City officials estimate that the current string of dark-store lawsuits alone would require it to refund $4.1 million of tax payments. Efforts to reduce tax assessments on the local level are continuing even as businesses are seeing hefty reductions in their federal taxes from last year’s tax overhaul in Washington. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "Mike Pence voted against expanding the Childrens Health Insurance program, which Hillary helped to start."
Evidence Summary: Vice President Mike Pence says he's been talking to Democrats over the last four weeks. Democrats in the House reiterated their support for ending the Hyde Act which bans Medicaid funding for abortion services. Trump said he would support efforts that have so far failed in the Republican-led Senate to permanently prohibit taxpayer funding for abortions. Trump also listed efforts the administration has taken over the past two years to deter abortions, including the blocking of foreign aid to organizations that promote abortions. The Pences have long been known for their religiously influenced brand of conservatism.

Claim: Mickey Mouse was registered to vote (in Florida).
Evidence Summary: An estimated 1.4 million Floridians with felony records were eligible to register to vote on Tuesday thanks to the passage of Amendment 4 in the November elections. The landmark ballot initiative restored voting rights to state residents with felony convictions who have competed their sentences, with the exception of those convicted of murder or a sexual offense. Elections supervisors across the state posted notices at their offices and websites saying they would accept the registration forms starting Tuesday. They noted the new voters don't need to present proof that they completed their sentence; they can simply fill out the existing application.

Claim: "Very, very, very few people get a pat-down when they go through airport security."
Evidence Summary: "The most vulnerable point of entry that we have into this country is the southern border," he says. “Now there’s nobody out there to check if they’re complying” "I think this is more of a political issue," he adds. "But I studied up on this. Do you know where those 4,000 people ... where they're captured?" "I'm not disagreeing with you that they're coming through airports. I'm saying that they come by air, by land and by sea."

Claim: "In September, the Department of Business and Consumer Services enacted a sudden 39% workers compensation premium assessment by rule with little notice to the public."
Evidence Summary: The program is to be moved to the Law Department. The new law was expected to take effect in April, but has been delayed by a year. The program is expected to cost $1.5 billion over the next 20 years. It is the largest program of its kind in the U.S. and the second largest in the world. It was created by the federal government in the 1960s to help pay for health care for injured workers. It has since grown to cover more than 1 million people.

Claim: "Giving the facts: 73,000 jobs created ... since 11. Do you know how many direct jobs in the auto industry? 1,800."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. Over 400,000 manufacturing jobs have been created added under Trump, compared to a net loss of over 200,000 under Obama. Last year was America's best manufacturing performance since 1997 - since before China joined the World Trade Organization and sucked all those jobs away. This is not by chance, but by policies that boosted business confidence and encouraged the hiring of American workers.

Claim: "Since February 2009, our economy has lost roughly 3 million private sector jobs while the federal government has grown by more than 400,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended, so it’s overdue for a stumble. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. Republicans refused to acknowledge the obvious improvements under Obama, who took office when the economy was shedding 750,000 jobs a month and contracting at a depression-level 8 percent rate. Trump even accused the fastidiously nonpartisan Bureau of Labor Statistics of manipulating the unemployment rate to produce good news under Obama.

Claim: "The U.S. unemployment rate has been massaged, its been doctored."
Evidence Summary: The unemployment rate — 3.7 percent in November — hovers near a 50-year nadir. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. Even wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly. Those who continue to predict an imminent recession despite the evidence have only their reputations on the line, and partisanship ensures that liberals will ignore even their most extraordinary blunders.

Claim: "If you printed a $1 bill for the entirety of the $14.1 trillion national debt, the resulting pile of money would weigh more than 136 aircraft carriers."
Evidence Summary: The nation faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The notion that debt doesn’t matter — which is gaining some currency on the left — is wrong. The long-term costs of Medicare, for example, continue to be a real problem in this country. This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors. Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling.

Claim: "Under Scott Walker, the Wisconsin middle class is shrinking at a faster rate than any other state in the country."
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. "He leaves office with the tax burden at a 50-year low and unemployment near record lows," Republican U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson said in an email. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "What we have done with the PATRIOT Act, weve given the government enormous powers. Weve given the government the right to reach deeply into peoples private lives, into their business affairs, without a court order."
Evidence Summary: "We have a government here that is heedless of its obligation to protect our freedoms," he says. "We have mass killings of defenseless innocents," he adds. "This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for" "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," he writes. "I am proud to be here to announce that I will do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes to remove a president”

Claim: "One in five women in the military are receiving unwanted sexual contact, as are 3.3 percent of men."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. Marine Corps has the lowest percentage of women in the military. Only one in three people in the Marine Corps have ever been sexually assaulted. The military has been criticized for not doing enough to protect women and girls. The U.N. has called on the military to do more to help women and children in need of protection from sexual assault and sexual harassment in the workplace. The Marine Corps is one of the largest military branches in the world, with more than 100,000 troops in service.

Claim: "More people hunt and fish in Texas in a given year than attend the... games of the Dallas Cowboys, the Dallas Mavericks, the Houston Texans and the Houston Rockets combined."
Evidence Summary: Miami is the only town in Roberts County, Texas. Residents recall the influx of media outsiders with disdain. Some here refuse to discuss politics in any real depth after the onslaught of coverage. Even when the Spurs racked up national N.B.A. championships, the coastal sports media dismissed them as boring. “We’re not Houston or Dallas, we don’t boast,” said Leticia Van de Putte, a San Antonio native and former state senator.

Claim: "The profit [from automated traffic enforcement cameras] is going to the private corporations, not to the city or state."
Evidence Summary: NYPD will soon be flying 14 drones over New York City. Some of the drones will be equipped with infrared cameras that can see through walls. The NYPD says this isn't the intent, but it's using a loophole in city law. The POST Act would be weaker than a number of other surveillance oversight bills in the U.S. and other municipalities have enacted stronger versions of the bill that empowered civilians to block the use of a proposed technology."A call for transparency is not the same thing as accountability," activist M Adams said.

Claim: "It is estimated that every $100 million spent on construction generates 3,000 new jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion. "It really was a banner year," said Martha Gimbel, director of economic research at the Indeed Hiring Lab.

Claim: "I used tax cuts to help create over 80,000 jobs in New Mexico."
Evidence Summary: President Trump and Republicans in Congress delivered the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The legislation simplified the federal tax code and encouraged entrepreneurs to launch and grow their businesses. Thanks to this administration’s pro-growth policies, over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows.

Claim: Says Scott Walker tried to pass a law to allow pharmacists to block womens access to birth control.
Evidence Summary: California and other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. The states had argued that the new policy "cannot be reconciled with the text and purpose of the ACA — which seeks to promote access to women's healthcare, not limit it" A U.S. District Judge Haywood Gilliam in Northern California issued a partial injunction blocking the policy from taking effect in the 13 states and Washington, D.C., that were behind the lawsuit.

Claim: "Again today (Ahmadinejad) made light of 9/11, and said that he's not even sure it happened and that people actually died."
Evidence Summary: Pompeo directly repudiated Obama’s 2009 Cairo speech, which was an overture by the then-new president to the Islamic world. On June 4, 2009, Obama spoke about stopping the U.S. use of torture and closing the Guantanamo Bay military prison. In Pompeo's view, Obama's speech heralded an era of timidity, wishful thinking, and what he called "willful blindness" And he blamed the Obama administration's policies for allowing violence and extremism to flourish.

Claim: "Under Barack Obama the last two years, the number of federal limousines for bureaucrats has increased 73 percent."
Evidence Summary: U.S. petroleum exports exceeded imports for the first time ever in November. Overall crime rates are lower among immigrants than native-born Americans, contradicting repeated claims by the president of the United States of America. Two of the world's biggest car companies decided to team up to develop autonomous and electric vehicles. President Donald Trump said he was canceling Speaker Nancy Pelosi's previously undisclosed trip to war-torn Afghanistan, telling the woman second in line to the presidency that she can't use a military jet but is welcome to fly commercially.

Claim: "Obama has been sending taxpayer dollars, at least $350,000 to fund anti-Likud, anti-Netanyahu groups in Israelfor (the) election."
Evidence Summary: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu criticized the corruption investigations targeting him, in a prime-time TV address on Monday. Netanyahu also used his national podium to accuse police investigators of ignoring other witnesses he claims could have testified in his favour. Israeli fraud investigators have recommended charges against Netanyahu in three long-running investigations: Case 1000, involving gifts from wealthy businessmen allegedly in exchange for favours; Case 2000, in which he is accused of colluded with a media organisation in return for favourable coverage; and Case 4000, involving a major Israeli telecoms company.

Claim: "Since being elected in 2002, Scott Walker has given back over $370,000 of his salary to the county."
Evidence Summary: Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. They include making Wisconsin a right-to-work state and requiring a photo ID to vote. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn Technology Group factory and campus. Critics say Foxconn won't deliver on its promises and that the $3 billion Walker pledged to the company was too much.

Claim: "Florida ""has the second-highest foreclosure rate in the nation."""
Evidence Summary: Housing markets this year are expected to heat up in the South and the Southeast. In Jacksonville, Florida, the median home value is $208,200, or one-sixth of what it is in San Jose. "You're starting to see new pockets of tech cities," said Skylar Olsen, director of economic research and outreach at Zillow. The data may also prove useful for city planners looking at neighborhoods that might be falling in value, and therefore cutting into tax revenue.

Claim: "The religious liberty bill proposed in the Georgia House of Representatives does not specifically exclude corporations, which means they can legally claim a religious exemption."
Evidence Summary: There are real concerns about a momentum behind Christian nationalism. The only religious advisory board Trump has is an all Evangelical Christian advisory board. Most Americans oppose religion-based service refusals, according to statistics from the Public Religion Research Institute. In Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, the Supreme Court ruled that Colorado showed hostility toward cake artist Jack Phillips. In NIFLA v. Becerra, the court ruled that the government has no business forcing pro-life nonprofits to advertise messages with which they disagree.

Claim: "When they passed Obamacare, they put a bailout fund in Obamacare. We led the effort and wiped out that bailout fund."
Evidence Summary: Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act. They complained about the law nonstop that entire time, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans. The GOP failed to pursue any of these leads. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began.“As long as the radical left is in charge, we’re never going to get anywhere,” Graham said. “The president will compromise but he will not capitulate”

Claim: Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walkers move to limit collective bargaining rights has led to riots at the Capitol -- Its like Cairo has moved to Madison these days.
Evidence Summary: His boldest and most disputed move came right out of the gate, when he effectively eliminated public sector collective bargaining. The fight over that brought protests as large as 100,000 people and made Walker a national conservative star. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said. A coalition of left-leaning Wisconsin groups filed a lawsuit on Thursday seeking to throw out several laws passed by the Republican-led legislature.

Claim: "Women still do not get paid as much as men, even for the same work, period."
Evidence Summary: We are seventh-grade students of Pope John XXIII School in Evanston. We understand that many jobs pay men more than they pay women for the same amount of work. Women of color get paid even less, when compared to all men. Since we are all created equal, shouldn’t we be treated equally? We hope to spread the word so that we can fix this injustice. — Charlene Solis and Kylie Titzer, Evanston, Illinois.“The reasons behind the gender pay gap are hard to shift, so there will be a challenge of managing expectations.” — Jerry Slabe, Chicago

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton and millennials have the same positions on climate change, abortion rights, immigration reform, gay rights and college affordability. Donald Trump doesnt."
Evidence Summary: Just 30 percent of Gen Zers ages 13 to 21 and a nearly identical 29 percent of millennials surveyed said they approve of Trump’s job performance. About 60 percent of both groups said they agree that increasing racial and ethnic diversity is good for society. 70 percent of those polled said the government should do more to solve problems, compared with 64 percent of Millennials and 53 percent or fewer of older Americans. "The magnitude of these differences dwarfs other divisions in society, along such lines as gender, race and ethnicity," the report said.

Claim: "Scott Walker to cut $300 million from universities, spend $500 million on a pro basketball stadium."
Evidence Summary: Illinois governor signs $80.7bn budget for K-12 schools and community colleges. $500m to encourage local governments to build emergency shelters and navigation centers for the homeless. $25m to assist homeless disabled individuals in applying for disability benefits. $75m for other immigration-related services such as assistance with naturalization and Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals applications. Some are already speculating that Newsom may be the most progressive governor in state history. He signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "Do you know that, statistically, when you take the SAT a second time, one third of the people that take the SAT, even if theyve been studying, will get a lower score than they did the first time around?"
Evidence Summary: A growing body of research has shown that standardized tests are a better predictor of where students live than of what they know. In response to the limited uses of standardized tests, more than 1,000 higher education institutions have already adopted test-optional policies. Rather than putting the onus on the testing bodies to prove that students cheated, it requires students to prove they didn’t. The result is that our college campuses are less diverse than they might be and disparities in access to higher education are perpetuated. We must take test security seriously and ensure the legitimacy of scores.

Claim: "On HealthCare.Gov, Texan Mark Sullivan found a good health insurance plan that includes dental, for less than $80 a month."
Evidence Summary: "It's simply intolerable to me that the richest country in the world can’t provide for the basic health needs of its most vulnerable citizens," says Gary Hamilton. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in theworld, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Sen. Obama has declared, and repeatedly reaffirmed his intention to meet the president of Iran without any preconditions."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Obama opened the door to talks with Iran in 2009, acknowledging “a tumultuous history” “The question, now, is not what Iran is against, but rather what future it wants to build,” Mr. Pompeo said. “America’s economic sanctions against the regime are the strongest in history, and will keep getting tougher until Iran starts behaving like a normal country,’’ he said. Trump could abandon caution and adopt a more aggressive posture toward Iran, especially in the absence of Mattis' prudence and restraint.

Claim: "I would love to see us have in this country what I helped lead in Arkansas...Amendment 65 (which) says that we believe life begins at conception, and that we ought to do everything in the world possible to protect it until its natural conclusion."
Evidence Summary: Both Democratic and Republican lawmakers have been highlighting the abortion issue leading up to the march. Some Democrats in the House reiterated their support for ending the Hyde Act which bans Medicaid funding for abortion services. A Florida state lawmaker aiming to ban abortion if a fetal heartbeat is detected has led to public outcry from some progressive groups, with one advocate stating it's "among the most extreme" ever filed in the country. "This is a movement founded on love and grounded in the nobility and dignity of every human life," Vice President Mike Pence said.

Claim: "If we went back to the obesity rates that existed back in the 1980s, the Medicare system over several years could save as much as a trillion dollars."
Evidence Summary: Michigan’s health department was already treating obesity as a public health issue. “Our work is framed around changes to policy and changes to the environment,” said Gwen Imes, the unit manager for the Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity Program of the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years — and there’t still a health care worker shortage. The health care industry heavily markets its own importance and pushes treating illness over preventing it with lifestyle modification.

Claim: "Domestic violence is seen as a pre-existing health condition and women had to pay 50 percent more for health care because of gender ratings, but under Obamacare, all of that is over."
Evidence Summary: Fox News host Tucker Carlson lamented about what his show’s chyron described as “men in decline.” During one segment, he claimed there was “more drug and alcohol abuse” and “higher incarceration rates” in areas where women earn more money than their male counterparts. “We don’t treat violence against women with the urgency that it deserves,” said Deborah Tuerkheimer, a Northwestern University law professor who has specialized in domestic violence prosecution.

Claim: "Says (t)his 12 year council Seat-warmer has never chaired, vice chaired, or led a single Council committee meeting."
Evidence Summary: Elin Roberts was Plaid's head of strategic communications. She takes on the role from Rhuanedd Richards, who was the party's chief executive. The adviser role is a public appointment, meaning the person filling it is required to be politically neutral in the job. The role involves supporting the presiding officer, or Llywydd, in planning, developing policies and communications. The Common Council has rotated the vice president’s post around to different members each year. The process was largely a formality with no one challenging Brewer, Caldwell or the legal and financial advisers.

Claim: "Since 1900, six (U.S. Supreme Court) justices have been confirmed during election years, including Justice Anthony Kennedy, who was confirmed in the final year of the Reagan Administration."
Evidence Summary: Brett Kavanaugh’s supreme court nomination was forced through after a vitriolic and incomplete examination of past sexual assault allegations, which he denied. This sequence of events, for the first time, raised the idea that the Supreme Court was a political body, and that appointments to the Court could mean favorable decisions for the political party that made and confirmed the appointment. In general, judicial conservatives – including Chief Justice Roberts – want to take the judiciary out of the political process. Trump and McConnell delivered a conservative majority on the court, which could now last decades and gives hopes of of overturning the 1973 Roe v Wade decision.

Claim: "Workers in the United States are making less than they were almost 20 years ago, and yet they are working harder."
Evidence Summary: The share of people who have part-time positions but would prefer to work full time is higher today than it was in 2007. A far smaller share of the American population is working today than before the recession. The banking crash, sluggish pay growth and insecurity of the gig economy are fuelling a broader sense that “there’s something wrong with the way work operates,” says David Graeber's Bullshit Jobs: A Theory. “Younger men want to spend time with their kids; more women want to have a career," says ZipRecruiter's Julia Pollak.

Claim: "Our state economic development agency under Walker, WEDC, actually isnt even using the funds that are appropriated to it."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials. A political group in one town spent hundreds of dollars on booze. In another town, a mayor’s campaign fund paid thousands of dollars to a village employee. Mr. Newsom's new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state.

Claim: "A violent felon can buy (a gun) over the Internet with no background check, no questions asked."
Evidence Summary: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi: "Today is a day of action. We say, ‘enough is enough’” Bill would require individuals who are not licensed gun dealers to bring the weapon to an authorized vendor to conduct background checks of prospective purchasers. Similar legislation introduced by Democrats while they were in House minority over the last eight years was never considered while Republicans were in control. Despite polling indicating widespread public support for the concept, the bill is unlikely to be considered in the Republican-controlled Senate.

Claim: Says Mexico can afford to build a wall because the countrys trade deficit with America is billions of dollars.
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump repeated his false claim that a tweaked North American Free Trade Agreement is effectively making Mexico pay for a border wall. Trump is demanding billions of dollars to build his wall along the U.S. border with Mexico. "When I say Mexico's going to pay for the wall that's what I said," he said Thursday. "I didn't say they're going to write me a check for $20 billion or $10 billion. They weren't going to writing a check," Trump said.

Claim: "The United States accounted for 26 percent of worldwide military spending during the Cold War, but now accounts for 41 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. spends 3.6 percent of its GDP on defense. According to NATO, just five European countries spend as much as 2 percent, and Germany spends just 1.2 percent. Trump has often griped that our allies expect us to carry too much of the load. If our allies were obliged to provide for their own defense without us, they could easily afford to do so. But a long-standing and valuable relationship should be ended only for defensible motives, under a rational plan and at an opportune time.

Claim: "Mathematically, the White Sox can still get in the playoffs."
Evidence Summary: "Whatever happens, I'm always going to know that fact. Even if I have to spend the rest of my life convincing the administration, or whoever comes next," he says. "I think it’s going to take months to put out this fire either we win or we lose," he adds. "If we see the need to make a change then we’ll make it.” “You can talk yourself into a recession.’ “I’m going to have to fight my way out of this,” he says, “but I’ve got a long way to go."

Claim: "Since the time of the Civil War, weve made a distinction in this country between the availability and the ability to access for people who were in the military, versus the rest of us, to vote."
Evidence Summary: Meade readied his family to head out south of downtown Orlando before the sun rose Tuesday. Wearing shirts with the slogan "Let my people vote," Meade likened his journey to the 1960s movement to end widespread practices that kept black voters away from the polls. "I can vote for the first time with my family and that means a lot to me," he said. "There is power in elected members of the United States Congress speaking up in the interest of their constituency and the American public"

Claim: "As a result of Chris Sununus vote against a Planned Parenthood contract, nearly 3,000 fewer women and families statewide accessed health care for birth control, cancer screenings and annual exams."
Evidence Summary: Planned Parenthood's State Executive Director of Iowa said the law was Reynolds' "egregious attempt to ban safe, legal abortions in Iowa" California and the other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. At issue is a requirement under President Barack Obama’s health care law that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. Obama officials included exemptions for religious organizations. The Trump administration expanded those exemptions and added “moral convictions” as a basis to opt out of providing birth control.

Claim: Says a majority of Americans -- and Republicans -- support his approach for deficit reduction.
Evidence Summary: Just 33 percent believe Trump is making a good-faith effort to end the shutdown rather than playing politics. Americans say, 50 percent to 35 percent, that Trump should have compromised on the border wall in order to prevent gridlock. Americans are divided on support for the wall (44 percent support while 47 percent oppose). And nearly half – 47 percent – blame Trump for the shutdown, compared to Congressional Democrats (33 percent) and Congressional Republicans (5 percent) The survey of 1,989 registered voters, conducted Jan. 4-6, found that 42 percent of voters agree with the president.

Claim: "I just talked about guns. I told you what my position was, and what I did as governor, the fact that I received the endorsement of the NRA."
Evidence Summary: “It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before,” he said. “I like attacking my opponents. I like the whole thing," he said of his role in the White House. "I applaud the president for re-evaluating what he's doing," he added. "This is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about"

Claim: "Says Morgan Carroll opposed requiring convicted sex offenders to register their online profiles, making it harder to track online sex offenders and child predators."
Evidence Summary: Peter Dutton wants to establish a national child-sex offender register. The states and territories, as well as non-government stakeholders, have been asked their views on the register, which would be the first of its kind in Australia. Dutton said consultation was underway, with the register potentially including identifying details of convicted abusers, including the type of crime, birthdate and postcode. Critics say there is no evidence such registers increase community safety or reduce re-offending. The Northern Territory government announced similar plans in 2014, but was ultimately unable to bring it to fruition.

Claim: "Says Adam Hasner said he will never accept a pay increase, but he voted to raise his pay four times."
Evidence Summary: Gov. J.B. Pritzker tried to further distance his nascent administration from his predecessor’s. He is moving to enact certain pay increases state workers say they’re owed and didn’t receive under Republican Bruce Rauner. In his first weeks in office, he signed an executive order aimed at absolving state workers from paying fees that support collective bargaining. That move led to a U.S. Supreme Court case that was seen as a blow to organized labor.

Claim: "For the votes that we got, I think we spent, on average, two bucks a pop. Compared to 42 bucks for incumbent Milwaukee County Executive Chris Abele."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds. A political group in one town spent hundreds of dollars on booze. In another town, a mayor’s campaign fund paid thousands of dollars to a village employee. The candidates also discussed term limits and potential changes to practices that allow aldermen to hold lucrative nongovernment jobs.

Claim: "More than two months ago President Barack Obama signed a bill for more than $1 billion in Zika funding, but the federal government has still only committed $7 million to help Florida."
Evidence Summary: Over the next two generations, the fight against disease is expected to narrow but also to intensify. With new diseases emerging, old ones evolving and these populations growing, the world is lucky to have such adaptable institutions. In September 2017, we were worried about President Donald Trump’s proposal to cut the U.S. foreign-aid budget by 30%. Fortunately, that didn’t happen, thanks to the efforts of lawmakers on Capitol Hill. But the president took aim at foreign aid again, saying that its supporters “don't even know who they’re giving it to”

Claim: "Unemployment for those with college educations is now 4.5 percent. Unemployment for those with more than a college education, below 4 percent."
Evidence Summary: The unemployment rate rose from a 50-year low of 3.7 percent to 3.9 percent as an additional 419,000 Americans began working or looking for jobs. Harsh weather held down job growth in November and some of December’s vigorous showing can be chalked up to a predictable rebound as idled workers returned. Payroll increases for October and November were revised up by a total 58,000 jobs. The percentage of jobs that don't require a bachelor's degree that are good or promising ranges from 35 percent in Spokane, Washington, to 9 percent in Washington, D.C.

Claim: I'm for a three-state political solution in Iraq. (Romney) is not.
Evidence Summary: Sally Kohn: Romney's op-ed was a shallow political miscalculation and a pathetic attempt to be the center of attention. She says Romney would rather bathe in the Washington swamp that has made him so comfortable for so long instead of taking on the failed status quo alongside President Trump. Kohn says Romney can help secure our border, renegotiate bad trade deals, reform our broken health care system, and work to stop endless wars and other wrongheaded foreign policy decisions – if he believes these things.

Claim: "Says that unlike Texas, Missouri has a perfect AAA credit rating."
Evidence Summary: Colorado Republican Sen. Cory Gardner remains worried about whether an extended shutdown could hurt the U.S.'s credit rating. The county last lost its top-notch credit status in 2011 after Standard and Poor's lowered it from AAA to AA+, amid a showdown over the debt ceiling. A downgrade of the nation's pristine credit rating could lead to higher borrowing costs for the Treasury, companies and consumers. A number of government agencies have not been funded since Dec. 21 amid President Trump's insistence that Congress provide $5.7 billion for a wall along the border with Mexico.

Claim: "The president can ""authorize the killing of a U.S. citizen who fights for a foreign terrorist organization."""
Evidence Summary: Since the murder and dismemberment of Khashoggi by Saudi operatives, Trump, Pompeo and Mattis played down the culpability of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. “It has made members of Congress more willing to assert their Article 1 rights of having a role in foreign policy,” Khanna said. The first article of the US constitution formally gives Congress the sole authority to declare war. But that has been largely ignored by a succession of presidents from both parties.”We will never stop in our fight against Radical Islamic Terrorism!”

Claim: "The 2011 Rebuild America Jobs Act would have cost the average American family $1,000 a year while making no significant impact to fix our infrastructure and roads."
Evidence Summary: During a Cabinet meeting in late December, Trump put the price of illegal immigration as high as $275 billion. Immigration policy experts across the political spectrum told NBC News that while undocumented immigrants do incur costs at the federal and state level, they also pay taxes. Those experts said the true cost, while difficult to ascertain, would be nowhere near the billions Trump has claimed. Trump also claimed that existing border wall sections caused "illegal traffic" to decline. No new sections of "wall" have been built.

Claim: "Medicare Part D was far more expensive than the Affordable Care Act and unlike the act, was never budgeted."
Evidence Summary: Poll: Americans initially support ‘Medicare-for-all,’ 56 percent to 42 percent. But if they were told that a government-run system could lead to delays in getting care or higher taxes, support plunged to 26 percent and 37 percent, respectively. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government- run health care programs – designed for the elderly and for the poor – to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services.

Claim: "More than 400 car crashes occur each year on the current, congested Columbia River Bridge."
Evidence Summary: Pedestrian deaths have been at a 25-year high, according to the Governors Highway Safety Association. A 2017 study found that an average of 13 people a day were killed by cars between 2005 and 2014. The number of traffic fatalities in the United States fell by about 2 percent in 2017, but that followed increases in deaths in 2016 and 2015. "We now have to do a far better job of building our infrastructure to accommodate all road users," Kolosh said. "It’s an achievement, and it should be celebrated," said Marco Conner, deputy director of Transportation Alternatives.

Claim: "Weve had examples like in Yuma County, where weve been able to stop 97 percent of the illegal (immigration) flow, and those programs, they abolish."
Evidence Summary: "I won’t consider myself to have that great achievement unless we can straighten out your border, and we’re working on it," he says. "And I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments," he adds. "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people ... agree 100 percent with what I'm doing," the president says. 'I want to move on now,' the president adds.

Claim: "If you make the average amount of people in Wisconsin, $50,000, you got $1.60 less a week in taxes under the state income-tax cut, but it didnt show up in your paycheck."
Evidence Summary: The IRS says it won’t penalize you for underestimating your tax bill in 2018. About 30 million workers had too little withheld from their paychecks following the new tax law. The IRS urged taxpayers throughout the year to do a "paycheck checkup" to make sure they had the proper amount withheld. Some taxpayers – particularly those who already pay higher state and local taxes – could end up owing more when they file their returns in April. The Trump administration said it expected 90 percent of taxpayers to owe less income tax.

Claim: "Says its a statistical reality that most single moms are very poor, under-educated, cant get a job, and if it werent for government assistance, their kids would be starving to death."
Evidence Summary: A family earning the average median income in the U.S. spends about one-fifth of their household income on childcare for one child. For women making minimum wage, full-time childcare costs 64 percent of their income. To keep Mom at home, the average single-income family must forfeit decent public schools and preschools, health insurance, and college degrees. Such pressures have taken these women out of the home and away from their children and simultaneously made family life less, not more, financially secure.

Claim: "Bill Richardson passed the first law in the nation giving National Guard soldiers $400,000 in life insurance."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump appeared to threaten to increase deportations of undocumented immigrants. Maine’s new Democratic governor implemented the expansion more than a year after voters approved it in a ballot referendum. House Democrats introduced a measure that would expand background checks for sales and transfers of firearms. “Today is a day of action. We say, ‘enough is enough,’” said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., at an event highlighting the new bill on the eighth anniversary of the mass shooting in Tucson.

Claim: "Boston is just 60 minutes away and its offering subsidies to developers who can charge higher rent than you can get in Providence while construction costs are more or less equal. As a result, the Boston skyline is completely dominated by the cranes."
Evidence Summary: Brian Hopkins’ bold move to reject two major features of the proposed Lincoln Yards development marks an important first step in the fight to prevent the city’s North Side from being overwhelmed by big, bland, could-be-anywhere growth. Sterling Bay, after all, is seeking a zoning change that would allow it to build more than 12 million square feet of offices, apartments, shops and hotel rooms on 54.5 acres of former industrial land along the Chicago River. The developer also wants $800 million in controversial tax increment financing to back the construction of new roads, bridges and other infrastructure.

Claim: "In the last couple of days, notices were sent (by officials in Ukraine) to Jews in one city indicating that they had to identify themselves as Jews."
Evidence Summary:  Belarusian officials are uneasy with commemorating the Holocaust. In Russia, anti-Semitic graffiti was found in the hometown of the Chabad movement. A survey of more than 16,000 Jews in European Union member nations found nearly 90 percent of respondents say anti-Semitism has increased in the past five years. The same man also reportedly damaged the entry doors of some Jewish institutions and knocked the hat from the head of an Orthodox Jewish man.. An Ohio doctor who allegedly said she would give Jewish people the wrong medication, was fired from the medical center she worked at.

Claim: "The judicial system is the most underfunded in this state, able to only pay 52 percent of its obligations. Meanwhile, judges get some of the richest pensions of all public employees."
Evidence Summary: We put our pension question to each, knowing how pols on the campaign trail in Illinois hate to discuss the bleak state of pensions. Illinois’s constitution won’t allow existing pensions to be diminished or impaired, but future pensions must be made affordable. The pension bucket will never be filled so long as the bucket has holes that drain it faster than money can be added. The idea that politicians and billionaires are supposed to be the same under the law as the poor and the oppressed is a powerful principle.

Claim: "You cant read a speech by George Washington . . . without hearing him reference God, the Almighty."
Evidence Summary: "We need that in our leaders today," Meltzer said. "George Washington brought this country together… by putting his arms around them and saying to his own regiments, 'Don't fight with each other, don't argue [with] each other. We need to be on the same team' "“Our motto is, ‘God above all things’”“It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before," he said.

Claim: "Says Jeff Wentworth, bending the rules, has used $211,743.96 in campaign contributions to lease luxury cars."
Evidence Summary: Ross Spano's campaign failed to itemize donors who gave more than $200 to his campaign, as required by federal law. Spano loaned his congressional campaign $174,500 at about the same time he borrowed $180,000 from two friends. Nearly one-third of the $881,321 brought in his campaign is under some form of scrutiny. The bulk of the personal loans made to Spano came from Cary Carreno, a longtime friend who advanced the candidate $110,000.

Claim: "Says If Oregons Legislature simply authorizes $450 million for the CRC, it will leave Oregon holding the bag for a great deal more cost responsibility."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Newsom takes office amid a soaring state economy that has a projected $16 billion in reserves and an additional $14.8 billion unrestricted surplus. Mr. Brown, among others, has warned that California is heading into a recession, and there are concerns in the business community and among some moderate Democrats that the former San Francisco mayor might take a decidedly different approach to spending than Mr.Brown. California, according to the letter, has already committed $1bn over a five-year period for a forest management plan.

Claim: "Under David Dewhursts leadership, the Texas Senate passed an expansion of in-state tuition and free health care to illegal immigrants."
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom signaled his virtue by promising his state would be a “sanctuary to all who seek it” He also expanded free health care for illegal immigrants, apparently hoping to attract more of them. New York City Mayor de Blasio won first prize by vowing womb-to-tomb handouts and a permanent push for more free stuff. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "Says a pack-a-day smoker who quits because of the tax increase will save about $1,650 a year."
Evidence Summary: Tobacco taxes increase the price of cigarettes, meant to encourage smokers to quit and make cigarettes unaffordable to young people. Cigarette makers argue taxes fuel black market smuggling and counterfeit production. A 2018 review of 15 studies from the U.S., Canada and Europe found each $1 increase in the minimum wage was associated with a 1.4 percent drop in the smoking rate. The benefits of a minimum wage increase are so great that even President Trump has advocated for one in the past.

Claim: "Rick Santorum says Rick Perry requested 1,200 earmarks as governor of Texas."
Evidence Summary: The FBI is investigating fake text messages sent to some House Republican lawmakers from someone impersonating a top aide to Vice President Mike Pence. The Trump administration has indefinitely postponed a proposed visit by a sanctioned Russian official to the U.S., a spokeswoman for NASA said on Friday. O’Rourke’s embrace of a Green New Deal is likely to face skepticism among progressives advocating the policy. The Republican leaders of the Illinois House and Senate did not comment on Pritzker's moves, but the state party pushed back.

Claim: "When we go to vote, they ask for drivers license and verify that you are a voter and a citizen in the state of Texas."
Evidence Summary: Most felons in Florida will be able to vote for the first time in 20 years. The change could increase the number of eligible voters by as many as 1.4 million. Some are worried that signing a voter registration form before the rules are clear could be a criminal violation. The new law will take effect on January 1, 2015. It will be the first change to the law since it was passed in 1894. It was intended to make it easier for people to register to vote, not to disenfranchise them.

Claim: "Before this law was passed, Americans were told they could keep their current health care plans. After it became law, the administration issued regulations stating nearly half of Americans would lose their current plan."
Evidence Summary: The Department of Homeland Security is reviewing more than 200,000 comments from the public before it issues a final rule. The rule would not be retroactive, meaning it wouldn’t take into account past use of public benefits like Medicaid. Some immigrant patients already are skipping medical appointments out of fear stoked by the proposed rule, providers and advocates report. “This is a proposal that thrives on fear and misunderstanding, so we wanted to be thoughtful about how and when to engage patients on the issue,” said Erin Pak, CEO of KHEIR Center.

Claim: "I built the last nuclear plant not only in the state, but in the country."
Evidence Summary: Illinois is home to 11 nuclear reactors that produce about 50 percent of the state’s energy. Pritzker is open to looking at a variety of renewable sources to put Illinois on a path to 100% clean renewable energy, a spokeswoman said. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," the governor's office said in a statement. "That would not have been possible without the support of the residents of Harris County," he said.

Claim: "When you have 8,000 veterans a year committing suicide, then you have a serious problem."
Evidence Summary: The Veterans Crisis Line helps about 2,000 callers every day. Tragically, an average of 20 veterans die by suicide each day. From 2001 to 2014, vet suicides have jumped 32 percent. Too many VA facilities simply don't have enough staff to provide personalized care. We must repair and expand the mental health system for our fighting men and women. We need to win the war at home. The VA should work with vets and their families to develop a personalized mental health plan for when they get home.

Claim: "When Disney was looking to build Disney World, they came to Miami and we told Disney to take a hike."
Evidence Summary: "I'm still fighting for this business and I will do that to the very end until there's no breath left in me," Mr. Trump said. The Everglades is an environmental treasure imperiled by pollution, toxic algae blooms, disrupted water flow and politicians who favor big industries like sugar. "We intend to appeal, and demonstrate that the Conrad Miami was and remains a welcoming place for all guests and employees," the hotel said in a statement. "You know why it's gone down? Because of good management, because of me and my people," he said.

Claim: "As district attorney, Susan Happ took $180,000 in a shady land deal from a man charged with multiple felony counts of sexual assault before she offered him a deferred prosecution."
Evidence Summary: A judge accused Harris of having violated defendants’ rights by refusing to disclose problems regarding a police drug lab technician. She negotiated a massive mortgage settlement during the housing crisis. As California’s attorney general, Harris secured a massive settlement with big banks for her state in 2012. She fought tooth and nail to uphold wrongful convictions that had been secured through official misconduct that included evidence tampering, false testimony and the suppression of crucial information by prosecutors. She was criticized in 2010 for withholding information about a police laboratory technician who had been accused of “intentionally sabotaging” her work.

Claim: "In Wisconsin, 300,000 voters were turned away by the states strict voter ID law in the 2016 presidential election."
Evidence Summary: The judge also struck down a law passed during the lame duck session that requires a 2-year expiration date on student IDs used for identification at the polls. In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. In an emailed statement, Holder said the ruling should serve as a rebuke to former Gov. Walker and "his cronies in the state legislature" "We saw voters respond incredibly when voting was expanded in Wisconsin - voters stepped up, they saw the ability to vote and they voted," Eicher said.

Claim: "Dan Patrick was the only state senator who voted against the Veteran Entrepreneurship Program, a program that assists veterans in successfully starting up their own businesses."
Evidence Summary: The shifts, while perhaps inevitable, leave some worrying that the hard work of pressing for the complicated and expensive health care needs, and other issues, will lack a generation of new leaders. “These smaller groups don’t do policy advocacy while the Big Six have been carrying all the water,” said Kristofer Goldsmith, an assistant director for policy and government affairs at the Vietnam Veterans of America. Some have expressed doubts that start-ups can change the trajectory of a state whose economic output is about the same.

Claim: "Youre paying for...(state Sen. Diane Allens) health care, and she took yours away."
Evidence Summary: In 1994, when I had three children under 5 years old, I traveled to Washington, D.C. to give firsthand accounts of people who struggled with health care costs and access. Sadly, this push for support wasn’t enough, and the health care reform plan was scrapped later that year. My family’s struggle to afford health care access continued for nearly two more decades. We finally got some relief in 2010 with the passage of the Affordable Care Act. But now, thanks to a decision released last month by a Texas district court judge, I’m terrified that we’ll be propelled right back to the same scary, helpless place.

Claim: "Once our Blueprint for Prosperity is signed into law, we will have delivered $2 billion in tax relief."
Evidence Summary: The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth, which in turn produces increasingly higher revenues several years down the road — enough to reduce the “cost” of the bill to the deficit. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. Total federal revenues in 2018 came in roughly where the Tax Foundation, a Washington think tank that typically projects large growth boosts from tax cuts, had forecast.

Claim: "Under Obama, the national debt has been reduced every year for the last five years."
Evidence Summary: The deficit rose to $779 billion this year, unprecedented during an economic expansion. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. That explains why the Medicare trust fund, which had grown increasingly stable during the Obama years, is now on track for insolvency in 2026, three years earlier than the projections in its previous report. President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes.” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and he wasn’t re-elected.

Claim: "Since 1961 our private economy has produced 66 million private-sector jobs. So whats the jobs score? Republicans 24 million, Democrats 42 (million)."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. It’s easier to import foreign labor to take the place of native-born Americans who are slipping behind. But Republicans now represent rural voters. Those who continue to predict an imminent recession have only their reputations on the line. The folks who created all those new jobs last month, on the other hand, have put their very livelihoods at stake.

Claim: "The law, right now, permits companies that close down American factories and offices and move those jobs overseas to take a tax deduction for the costs associated with moving the jobs to China or India or wherever."
Evidence Summary: President Trump said Friday that he wants to find ways to allow companies to retain top foreign workers. “I get calls from the great tech companies and they are saying we don’t allow people at the top of their class at the best schools in the country,” Mr. Trump said. Goodyear opened up a new tire manufacturing plant in San Luis Potosi in Mexico. They're paying their workers there a $1.58 an hour. It's taxpayers subsidizing foreign companies not having to meet their laws.

Claim: "A DWI costs $17,000."
Evidence Summary: For years, Republican state Rep. Jim Ott and Sen. Alberta Darling have been proposing legislation aimed at drunken driving. Ott has been on a decadelong quest after a drunken driver killed constituent Judy Jenkins' pregnant daughter and 10-year-old granddaughter in 2008. The Assembly overwhelmingly passed their 2013 proposal to make a first offense a misdemeanor, but the Senate did nothing with it. The Tavern League of Wisconsin was officially neutral on the bill, but state agencies estimated it would cost more than $5 million to hire enough prosecutors and public defenders.

Claim: "In 2010, Clinton said Iran could enrich uranium. In 2014 she said shes always argued against it."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi alarmed fellow Democrats when she met with Donald Trump during his transition to president. She also took a secret trip to Syria and met with President Bashar Assad, who has been accused of war crimes and genocide. She said she doesn’t regret the trip and considers it important to meet with adversaries if “you are serious about pursuing peace” She also noted that the 2003 invasion of Iraq was based on faulty intelligence and said that she wanted to understand the evidence of the Syria attack.

Claim: "Last month, more Americans stopped looking for a job than found one."
Evidence Summary: The number of unfilled jobs in the U.S. fell in November to the lowest level since June. There were a seasonally adjusted 6.89 million job openings on the last business day of November. Openings remain near a historical peak, but have edged lower since touching a record high of 7.29 million in August. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains, and African-Americans, whose jobless rate has reached record lows.

Claim: "We have 10,000 baby boomers retiring every day."
Evidence Summary: Baby boomers are retiring at a rate of 10,000 people per day, according to the National Institute on Aging. By 2030, 20 percent of the U.S. population will be comprised of elderly Americans, climbing from 15 percent in 2015. The most common reason for retiring is the desire to spend more time with family, health issues and dissatisfaction with work. The baby boomers can be an asset, or a burden, depending on how you look at it, says CNN's John Sutter.

Claim: "In a few months, this deal would give Iran $150 billion for its $300 billion to $400 billion economy, which is like $8 trillion flowing into the United States treasury."
Evidence Summary: The president is assuming a wide variety of economic benefits will come from the agreement that can't be quantified or counted on. The trade deal preserves the existing liberalized environment of low or no tariffs among the U.S., Mexico and Canada, with certain improvements for each country. While imperfect, the Iran deal postponed Iran’s nuclear development while subjecting it to stringent inspections and verification. No doubt Iran helps roil the region. But its military resources are dwarfed by its Sunni Arab neighbors.

Claim: "When each faced a pension funding crisis, Tom Barrett made tough choices and smart cuts while Scott Walker passed $400 million in pension debt to the next generation."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. The departing governor inherited a $28 billion deficit and left Mr.Newsom a $14 billion surplus. Mr.Brown’s insistence on holding onto state revenues was a source of continued friction with Democratic allies in the Legislature. Walker signed into law a litany of Republican priorities. His boldest and most disputed move came right out of the gate, when he effectively eliminated public sector collective bargaining.

Claim: "There are over 2,000 crimes recorded per 100,000 population in the U.K., compared to 466 violent crimes per 100,000 in the United States."
Evidence Summary: Violent crime recorded by police in England and Wales has risen by 19%. Number of homicides - including murder and manslaughter - has risen from 649 to 739. Robbery went up by 17%, as did recorded sexual offences. Separate figures from the police and NHS suggest violence causing harm is increasing. However, the rate remained relatively very low, at 13 homicides for every one million people in the population. The figures cover the 12 months to the end of September 2018, the Office for National Statistics said.

Claim: This president ... could have gotten crippling sanctions against Iran. He did not.
Evidence Summary: He's continued his tough line with Moscow. He pulled out of Obama's disastrous Iran deal and reimposed crippling sanctions on Tehran. And when Iranian protesters rose up to challenge the regime, Trump (unlike his predecessor) stood with them. The U.S. has since re-imposed economic sanctions on the country, including on oil exports. “Our eagerness to address only Muslims, not nations, ignored the rich diversity of the Middle East, and frayed old bonds,” Pompeo said.

Claim: "After prenatal diagnosis, 90 percent of Down syndrome children in America are aborted."
Evidence Summary: Scientific and medical advances mean that diagnoses once a death knell for unborn children are no longer so. With the rise of prenatal testing, many babies never draw a breath after their parents get a difficult test result. Data indicates that 67 percent of babies that are determined to have Down syndrome are aborted. The United Nations Population Fund reports that by 2020, more than 142 million women and girls will be lost to “gender-biased sex selection, a form of discrimination.“I carried my dying daughter to term. It was a lesson in love many didn’t understand," says mother of four.

Claim: "Were at the point of reaching 2 million deportations ...this is a historic level, more than any other president of the United States."
Evidence Summary: For years, Donald Trump has portrayed immigrants as a scourge on American society. But for all his bluster, Trump has not racked up the draconian immigration enforcement record he threatened from the campaign trail. Immigration and Customs Enforcement deported about 95,000 people from the interior of the U.S. last year. Interior deportations in Obama’s first three years in office topped 200,000 annually for the first time in his presidency. "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States, undetected, undocumented, unchecked," Obama said in 2005.

Claim: "Barack Obama ""extended health care for wounded troops who'd been neglected."""
Evidence Summary: The motto of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs is “To care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow, and his orphan” The nation has long accepted a responsibility to provide for the medical needs of men and women who have served in uniform in war and peace. For years, those in need of medical care have faced long waits to see doctors or had to travel long distances to get care. "It’s simply intolerable to me that the richest country in the world can’t provide for its most vulnerable citizens," Gary West says.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney was clear that he would not provide government assistance to the U.S. auto companies, even if they went through bankruptcy."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney told a tech summit in Utah in June he thinks Trump will "solidly" win re-election in 2020. In an op-ed for The Salt Lake Tribune in June 2018, Romney showed some appreciation for the president's policies, admitting his first year in office "exceeded [his] expectations" Romney said he will support Trump policies that he believes are "in the best interests of the country and my state" But he will speak out against "significant statements or actions that are divisive, racist, sexist, anti-immigrant, dishonest or destructive to democratic institutions"

Claim: "Our ranking in terms of the best and worst states to do business in was 43 four years ago, and we just moved up to 17 two weeks ago."
Evidence Summary: "Many growing businesses like ours are continuing to invest in the future regardless," he says. Texas added 379,000 new residents from July 2017 to July 2018, according to U.S. census data. Illinois, meanwhile, lost population for the fifth consecutive year in the same period. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he adds. "The thing that businesses hate is uncertainty, and we've got a ton of it"

Claim: "Says his reform efforts improved performance at all 10 low-performing schools in Palm Beach, Florida."
Evidence Summary: High school graduation rates, test scores, and school funding have all been moving modestly upwards over the lifetime of the economic boom. Researchers point to two potentially promising areas. One is to use schools in poorer neighborhoods as hubs for social services provided to the population as a whole. That's a complete turnaround from 50 years ago when, in 1970, the Golden State ranked among the top 10 states in per pupil spending.“The problem,” Iwazeki said, “is there is no silver bullet.”

Claim: "Democrats' budget resolution would raise America's tax bill by ""$500-billion."""
Evidence Summary: Democrats have historically been the party of higher taxes, and they’re embracing that mantle once again during their first week in power. The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit, which now appears on track to top $1 trillion this year. If growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. And finally, their spending bills do nothing to secure our southern border. It gets worse: The Democratic party platform calls for a tax on carbon dioxide, an energy tax.

Claim: The commercial property tax [in Providence] is second highest in the country behind Detroit.
Evidence Summary: State Reps. Allen Skillicorn and Jeanne Ives oppose increasing the state motor fuel tax. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has proposed an increase of 30 cents per gallon to one of the nation’s highest gas taxes. Property taxes are largely levied at the local level, and cities where residents pay more property taxes as a percentage of their home value were penalized. In the economy category, we gave median household income full weighting. We used five-year average unemployment due to lack of comparable annual data at local levels.

Claim: "Barack Obama wants to ""restore"" the estate tax that George W. Bush ""repealed."""
Evidence Summary: Omar's comments come as several high-profile Democrats propose high-cost federal programs and higher taxes on top earners. Just this week, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., offered a plan to expand the estate tax on the wealthy, including a 77 percent tax rate on billionaires’ estates. Sanders’ bill, called the “For the 99.8% Act,” would tax the estates of the 0.2 percent of Americans who inherit more than $3.5 million.

Claim: "Government subsidies for renewable energies such as wind and solar are 100 times greater than those given to gas and coal, and 50 times greater than what the nuclear industry enjoys."
Evidence Summary: In 2017, the TVA generated 40 percent of its power from nuclear, 26 percent from coal, 20 percent from gas, and 10 percent from hydro. The TVA projects only modest shifts by 2027, with 43 percent of electricity from nuclear. That could be a sticking point for environmentalists who see nuclear reactors’ radioactive waste and thirst for cool fresh water as incompatible with their visions of a clean energy future. But the extent and the speed of the emission cuts required to keep the planet from warming gives pragmatic appeal to a policy that embraces nonrenewable sources.

Claim: "A small majority of Americans dont think they like the Affordable Care Act, but a large majority of Americans dont want to do away with the protections that are in the Affordable Care Act."
Evidence Summary: The Kaiser Family Foundation released its latest tracking poll on public attitudes towards health care policy. A slight majority – 56 percent – surveyed by Kaiser backed the idea of all Americans getting insurance from a single government plan. Support shot up to 71 percent, and opposition fell to 27 percent, when respondents were told Medicare for all could “guarantee health insurance as a right for all Americans.” The survey found majority support for more incremental moves to a nationalized system: 77 percent – including 69 percent of Republicans – favor allowing people to buy health insurance through Medicare once they turn 50.

Claim: "In America, radical speech is not a crime."
Evidence Summary: “I just can’t support it,” says Rep. Steve Israel. “It’s just not right.” “I’m sorry, I’ve got to say this,’ he says, “but it’ll never happen again.’’ “We’re going to have to wait and see what happens,“ he says. ‘But I just can't support it.‘ “This is not the way to go. ”

Claim: "100 percent of the crime is committed, in estimate, by about 15 percent of the population."
Evidence Summary: Hemingway tweeted that the fact checkers ding this Trump claim, which is true, ‘misleading’ ‘This figure includes all types of crimes,’’ he tweeted. “Police and prosecutors have been getting increasingly savvy and creative and aggressive about going after older sex crimes and cover-ups than ever before," Hemingway said. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he added. "There are murders happening in the UK on a daily basis and they will need investigating too"

Claim: "In 2016, Dallas, Texas, has fewer police officer-related shootings than any large city in America."
Evidence Summary: The Brennan Center for Justice estimates the 2018 overall murder rate in the country's 30 biggest cities declined by nearly 6 percent, continuing a historic downward trend despite a national spike between 2015 and 2016. A large decrease in Chicago and a moderate decrease in Baltimore, cities where deadly violence has garnered some of the most intense national media coverage, contributed to the overall decline. Despite the general downward trend, some major cities including Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia saw significant increases in murders from last year.

Claim: Close to half of the folks in this country illegally entered legally (but) overstayed (their ) visas.
Evidence Summary: In 2017, for the first time, the unauthorized population from Mexico constituted less than one-half of all the undocumented people in the U.S. Mexico was the leading country for visa overstays in 2016, "about twice the number from India, China and Venezuela," according to the study. The number of undocumented people coming from Venezuela, which is wracked by political and economic turmoil, increased from 60,000 to 145,000 in 2017. "In another era, we would be celebrating our success," said Warren.

Claim: "John McCain has ""a consistent pattern of ducking important environmental votes."""
Evidence Summary: Rick Scott won a Senate seat this fall even though his gutting of Florida’s water management budget likely created the conditions for the unprecedented red tide event. Andrew Wheeler has demonstrated over and over again why he should not be entrusted with protecting us from harm. The Democratic platform distilled the moral gulf between the parties. It committed to the Paris agreement, drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions, strengthening fuel economy standards for automobiles and taxing carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. The Republican Party and its leader declared war on environmental protection and fealty to its paymasters in the fossil fuel industry.

Claim: "Iowa has the fourth fastest-growing personal income in the United States, while nationally, the real wage has decreased over the past eight years that Congressman (Bruce) Braley has been there by 2.7 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. The average pretax income of the top 10th of Americans has doubled since 1980, that of the. top 1% has more than tripled, and that of. the top 0.001% has risen more than sevenfold.

Claim: "In Tripoli, jihadists today swim in our embassy pool."
Evidence Summary: Over the past year Haftar has been slowly building diplomatic support in Paris and Rome. The prospects of the UN holding free and fair elections this year depend on securing stability in the country. The GNA’s ministry of foreign affairs in the capital was attacked by Islamic State fighters on Christmas Day, leaving two dead. In another incident, 53 migrants who left Morocco on a dinghy were missing after what one survivor said was a collision in the Alboran Sea, in the western Mediterranean.

Claim: "Latinos in Nevada support Educational Savings Accounts, helping more than 450,000 students access better schools. But Catherine Cortez Masto is against it."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's response to President Donald Trump's Oval Office address was one of the most compelling and effective. Her response alluded to her upbringing, with a mother who taught her the importance of not paying too much attention to others' criticisms. She said she knows it's a deliberate strategy to attack her, the messenger, so it discredits her message. Some of her ideological opponents acknowledge that her proposals actually address fiscal questions that most politicians don’t bother with.

Claim: "Says Sen. Rob Portman says Ted Strickland earned $400,000 a year as a lobbyist after leaving Ohio for Washington."
Evidence Summary: Lobbying, consulting and corporate-funded think tank industries boomed over the past three decades as Congress gutted itself. Corporations spend more money on lobbying in Washington than Congress spends total. Stagnant pay and fewer options for advancement, combined with student loan debt and the high cost of living in Washington, pull staffers into the private sector. Former Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., hit back at Democrat Elizabeth Warren over Twitter in response to the Massachusetts Democrat's claim that he retired from Congress to collect a “fat lobbyist paycheck”

Claim: "Scott Walker was elected governor on a promise not to take campaign contributions from the date of his inauguration until the signing of the state budget, but broke it by taking nearly $5.6 million."
Evidence Summary: Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials. A political group in one town spent hundreds of dollars on booze. In another town, a mayor’s campaign fund paid thousands of dollars to a village employee. Walker didn't deliver on his signature 2010 campaign promise to create 250,000 private-sector jobs in his first term.

Claim: "The governor won this state with 49 percent. We had some of the closest races in the House in history. So youre not dealing with this 70-30, like they want to make it."
Evidence Summary: For Republicans, Florida stands out as the best political news from an otherwise grim year. Democrats remain just as shellshocked as they were after Election Day. As of Tuesday, there was still only one Democrat in statewide office. "We just live in a red state here,” said Alex Sink, a former Democratic state official who once narrowly lost a bid for governor. "It's not like I have tested this out with some focus groups, or done a bunch of polling," she said.

Claim: "If you are African-American in this country today, you are likely to have a net worth of about 10 percent of what white families have."
Evidence Summary: A growing number of households are “underwater” when it comes to wealth. 37% of Black families and 33% of Latino families have zero or negative wealth, compared to just 15.5% of white families. The median Black family today owns $3,600 – just 2% of the $147,000 of wealth the median white family owns. median Latino family has assets worth $6,600 - just 4% of a white family’s. In other words, the 1% are profiting off ongoing racial economic inequality.

Claim: "Closing the tobacco loophole would save Missouri taxpayers $50,000,000"
Evidence Summary: Cigarette makers argue taxes fuel black market smuggling and counterfeit production. In turn, cigarette companies and their allies say increased taxes cause violence, revenue loss and lead to more harmful cigarettes. The biggest hurdle to enacting taxes, experts say, is the industry’s well-funded opposition. Tobacco control experts have found companies exaggerate smuggling evidence, and groups such as the Fraser Institute often echo those concerns. The thinktank accepted donations from Philip Morris Singapore, Philip Morris Malaysia and Japan Tobacco International alongside money from the American, British and Canadian governments.

Claim: "Says Vladimir Putin once said, The breakup of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the 20th century."
Evidence Summary: “No one can even remotely argue that the war in Afghanistan had anything to do with the break-up of the Soviet Union,” said Sergey Radchenko, a professor of International Politics at Cardiff University. Artemy Kalinovsky, an assistant professor at the University of Amsterdam and research associate at the Cold War Studies Program at the London School of Economics and Politics, largely agreed with Radchenko. “They were right to be there,’ Trump said. But, in Trump’s version, when the war bankrupted theSoviet Union, it became Russia.”

Claim: "House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience."
Evidence Summary: The 101 new members of the 116th Congress include 26 millennials (up from six in the last Congress), and 18 more GenXers. At the start of the 115th Congress in January 2017, there were just five millennials (individuals born between 1981 and 1996) in the House of Representatives. According to Pew, more than one-fifth of the 91 congressional freshmen are millennials, and two-thirds (14) of those representatives are Democrats. But in reality, there are only about 60 Members in both the House and Senate with the acumen to advance major legislation.

Claim: "There are billions of barrels of oil beneath our oceans and in Alaska, and there is ample oil shale in the Rocky Mountain West, but Democrats ""say all this American energy is off limits."""
Evidence Summary: By 2050, the country’s newly tapped reserves are projected to spew 120 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. Nearly 90 percent of new U.S. oil and gas drilling through 2050 is expected to depend on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. Upward of 60 percent of the emissions would come from two major fracking hot spots: the Permian Basin and the Appalachian Basin. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico and Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

Claim: Says Mitch McConnell pushed the Wall Street bailout through the U.S. Senate and called it the Senate at its finest.
Evidence Summary: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., will also be at the White House meeting. But he has pointedly declined to engage on the budget battle. Up to now, at least, he's dismissed action on any appropriations legislation, long-shot or otherwise, as unnecessary "show votes" But on Thursday, the Senate is finally expected to snap into action. McConnell's gambit is simple: force Senate Democrats – and perhaps even House Democrats – to support his measure, or begin blocking GOP efforts to re-open the government.

Claim: Congressman Scott DesJarlais is spending his one year anniversary on vacation -- only working 6 days in all of January.
Evidence Summary: “Can’t call it an official wedding until the [government] reopens, so until then, I leave you with this: we closed out 2018 with a really really really good party with those we love most,” the couple said. “We've been furloughed I think twice in our time in the Senate years ago, so we’re pretty familiar with what gets funded and what doesn't,’ Pollock said. The Dems' visit comes amid the ongoing partial government shutdown that has left around 800,000 federal workers with no pay.

Claim: "The Democratic health care plan is a ""government takeover of nearly 20 percent of our economy."""
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Those are some of the key findings in a new poll from the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Democrats are in the majority now, which means they can convene committee hearings, craft legislation and even put it to a vote. That’s because Democrats for most of the last 10 years had their hands full trying to stop Republicans from undermining or repealing the Affordable Care Act. The poll found that Americans initially support ‘Medicare-for-all,’ 56 percent to 42 percent.

Claim: 41 cents out of every dollar (the U.S. spends) is borrowed from places like China.
Evidence Summary: U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil futures were at $45.83 per barrel at 0120 GMT. International Brent crude futures were down 51 cents, or 0.9 percent, at $54.40 per barrel. Markets were roiled by a more than 3 percent crash of the U.S.-dollar against Japan’s yen overnight. Apple chief executive Tim Cook said “We did not foresee the magnitude of the economic deceleration, particularly in Greater China’

Claim: "On average, women make 77 cents for every dollar men make."
Evidence Summary: Women's salaries are 23 percent less than men’s salaries, or 77 percent of what men get paid, for the same job. Women of color get paid even less, when compared to all men. Since we are all created equal, shouldn’t we be treated equally? We hope to spread the word so that we can fix this injustice. — Jerry Slabe, Chicago                Pay women the same as men                Capitalism in U.S. lacks heart and a dedication to the common good.

Claim: "I used my line-item veto authority to veto $360 million dollars in special interest spending, so that our budget this year ... is still smaller than the fiscal year 2008 and 2009 budgets signed by my predecessor."
Evidence Summary: President Trump has refused to sign spending bills for nine of the 15 Cabinet-level departments until Congress approves his request for $5.7 billion in funding to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. The president initially said he would be "proud" to own the partial shutdown, but he quickly shifted blame onto Democratic leaders and has flirted with taking some extraordinary measures to find money for the wall. Fox News’ Louis Casiano and The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Claim: "Black voter turnout in 2012 exceeded the rate of white voter turnout, even in the states with the strictest voter ID laws."
Evidence Summary: Racial disparities in income, health, education and almost every other measure of social well-being remain. “Here in America, what the federal government decided to do is subsidize home buying, but not for black people,” Moore said. ‘I am hoping the new people who have been elected — they have a lot of fire now — will go to Congress and stay true.’ ‘There is an over-obsession over the Obama-to-Obama voter. I'm just saying, the stories of people building across race in place, and if people heard them, they would be as hopeful as I am'

Claim: "In New Hampshire, 93 percent of Democrats, 79 percent of Republicans, 82 percent of gun owners and 60 percent of NRA households support background checks."
Evidence Summary: The bill expanding background checks "marks a critical first step toward strengthening America's gun laws," Giffords said. Pelosi called the bill on background checks a common-sense measure and cited polls showing 97 percent of Americans support background checks for all gun sales. The National Rifle Association quickly denounced the proposal, calling it an effort to “score political points” and arguing that “so-called universal background checks will never be universal because criminals do not comply with the law.” The NRA opposition to the bill may doom its chances among many Republicans.

Claim: "I wanted to keep it private, because I dont think its anybodys business if I want to send money to the vets."
Evidence Summary: "They watch out for you. That’s why I reached out to them," she said. "And now I can’t tell them anything." "I’m not keeping anything under wraps.” "The IRS was still figuring that out. Individuals were still figure that out even with the full funding," he said. “I would, I don't care,” he said, "I don't want to keep it under wraps”

Claim: "If West Virginia had voted for our Democratic nominee in 2000 and 2004, we wouldn't have had to put up with George Bush for the last 7 years."
Evidence Summary: North Carolina House race marred by fraud may not be resolved until the fall. Failed 2018 Virginia Senate candidate Corey Stewart announced he would not seek another term as chairman of the Board of Supervisors of Prince William County. "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing when you look at who is representing us’” – Kansas Senate candidate LaTurner.

Claim: "The stimulus includes ""$219,000 to study the sex lives of female college freshmen."""
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration is cutting short evidence-based grants for teen pregnancy prevention programs, favoring curriculum focused on abstinence. A 2007 evaluation of four federal abstinence programs found that they had no impact on sexual activity or rates of unprotected sex among teens. Abortions-related impasses could also stall progress on annual spending bills if House Democrats keep their vow to eliminate current restrictions like those limiting self-paid abortions for servicewomen or imposing further limits on international aid. “The only question is how it will emerge,” said Ross Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers University.

Claim: "While introducing Donald Trump, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani omitted the September 11, 2001, strikes as a successful terrorist attack during the eight years before President Obamas 2008 election."
Evidence Summary: Is this the latest in a series of big blunders made by Giuliani? When there is bad news coming, Giuliani blurts it out, the public gawks, and the shock is absorbed in advance. On Sunday, Giuliani made headlines when he said that Trump may have been involved in conversations about the efforts to build a Trump Tower in Moscow up until Election Day 2016. He even told The New York Times that the president said talks about the project were "going on from the day I announced" Since then, he has been trying to walk back his assertions.

Claim: "He positions himself as pro environment, but he scored a zero yes, zero from the League of Conservation Voters last year."
Evidence Summary: O’Rourke’s embrace of a Green New Deal is likely to face skepticism among progressives advocating the policy. In December the investigative news site Sludge found that he accepted $430,000 from individuals working in the oil and gas industry, 75 percent of which came in the form of donations over $200. Fossil fuel executives made at least 29 large donations to O'Rourke during his Senate campaign. It doesn’t mean you trust every conversion or absolve every sin. But let's acknowledge and celebrate that both the Democratic base and the larger American public have shifted.

Claim: "Since 2000, only 10 cases of in-person voter fraud have been proven nationally."
Evidence Summary: More than 275,000 inactive Ohio voters are about to get their final opportunity to keep from dropping off the rolls. Most of the problems voters reported can be solved with simple, commonsense reforms. The most widespread problem we saw was the most predictable one: technology and voting machine failures. In Massachusetts, evidence has come to light that the state’s voter rolls are increasingly inaccurate and prone to corruption. In Bladen County, the Republican candidate, won 61 percent of the absentee vote there, even though just 19 percent of successfully submitted ballots came from registered Republicans.

Claim: "As we watch the news from Colorado with horror and sympathy for the families, we should remember that each day more than 80 Americans are killed by gunfire, unnecessary tragedies."
Evidence Summary: "I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, or the sadness gripping their souls," he said. "How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?" he asked. "As a government, we will do whatever is required to support this woman's family and friends," he added. "Your speech further debased the dignity of the office," wrote Ken Derow of Swarthmore, Pennsylvania.

Claim: Says Mitt Romney flip-flopped on supporting the presidents Recovery Act.
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney is just days away from being sworn in as a junior senator in Utah. In an op-ed for The Washington Post earlier this week, Romney accused President Donald Trump of not having “risen to the mantle of the office,” of showing a “shortfall” in character and leadership. The former Massachusetts governor has flip-flopped on his support for Trump in the past, but pledged to stand against the president during his Senate bid and speak his mind if he disagreed with White House policies.

Claim: "(The Tax Policy Center) found that Romney would raise taxes on the average middle class family by $2,000 to pay for $5 trillion in tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires."
Evidence Summary: The top tax on the wealthy should rise to as high as 70 percent, Ocasio-Cortez told "60 Minutes" on Sunday. That approach stands in stark contrast to the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which gave the lion's share of benefits from reducing federal income tax rates to top earners and corporations. Romney spent the bulk of his business career at a firm called Bain Capital. His win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump.

Claim: "Private prisons do not chase escaped inmates past the perimeter like the public prisons do, which means more escaped prisoners in our communities."
Evidence Summary: Former Chicago police Officer Jason Van Dyke is scheduled to be sentenced Friday for the shooting death of Laquan McDonald. Public defender of Cook County says prison life is unsafe for everyone who is locked up. For decades, studies and experts have noted the danger of prisons across the nation. We need go no further than a local article that detailed the hell suffered by Anthony Gay, who expected to serve 3 ½ years in prison for robbery in 1994, but spent 22 years in solitary confinement. The chief inspector of prisons, Peter Clarke, said: “We found too many cases in prisons where little, if anything, was done to reduce the likelihood of reoffending"

Claim: "Says Tim Pawlenty said in 2006, The era of small government is over... the government has to be more proactive and more aggressive."
Evidence Summary: Newt Gingrich: Washington fails to come up with real solutions for our most vexing problems. Gingrich: The same change-ignoring inertia holds back progress in our states. He says newly empowered state and local politicians do seem willing to try new things in an effort to make progress against the nation’s problems. The states are the laboratories of democracy; right now they’re seeing what it looks like when elected officials try to do what they were elected to do, and actually govern, he says.

Claim: "I signed the largest single tax cut in the history of Florida, a $25 billion tax cut over five years, directed at property tax cuts."
Evidence Summary: Ron DeSantis, the new Republican governor of Florida, is facing the first challenge to his fresh environmental approach. He has demanded the mass resignation of Rick Scott’s water management team, after they refused to delay a lease extension for a sugar corporation on land in the Everglades wetlands. He recently unveiled a $2.5bn environmental package, partly in response to the “red tide” of toxic algae that afflicted Florida in 2018. DeSantas is a self-styled “pitbull Trump defender’ whose most infamous campaign ad featured him reading the Trump book The Art of the Deal as a bedside story.

Claim: So what sort of services does Romney's health care plan provide? Per the state Web site: $50 co-pay for abortions.
Evidence Summary: The administration is also proposing to require insurers that cover abortion to offer a "mirror" plan that does not. A judge blocked the change from going into effect Monday while a challenge from Democratic attorneys general proceeds. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. During the 2012 race, Romney called for the repeal of Obamacare, the federal health care program that had largely replicated what Romney had put into place as Massachusetts governor.

Claim: We (Trump University)have an A from the Better Business Bureau.
Evidence Summary: Temple University will pay nearly $5.5 million to settle a class-action lawsuit by current and former business-school students. The university acknowledged that its online M.B.A. program’s top spot in a nationwide ranking was based on false data. State attorneys general began investigating the company in 2014 following complaints from students and a damning report by the U.S. Senate. Company officials on Thursday said they deny any wrongdoing but called the settlement an "important milestone"

Claim: "In New Hampshire, I spent $3 million. Jeb Bush spent $44 million. He came in five, and I came in number one."
Evidence Summary: At important junctures of his public career Romney has revealed himself as a supremely transactional figure. "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner," he said. Trump: "I won big, and he didn’t. But i’m only one person,” he said of Romney. "This is my 13th trip to New Hampshire. I’ve done 21 to Iowa,’ he explained during his latest stop in the Granite State.

Claim: "The United States is number 14, number 15 in college graduation rates, and were leading the world in high school dropout rates."
Evidence Summary: Nafsa estimates that students from abroad created or sustained more than 455,000 jobs in the United States. The value of education is almost double the revenue from America’s top agricultural export in 2017, soybeans. When other student spending is factored in, education's total export value rivals that of pharmaceuticals ($51 billion) and automobiles ($53 billion)." We need the government to start focusing on our education," says John Sutter, president of Nafsa. "It's crucial that we tackle this issue head on," he says.

Claim: "Social Security, like I told you, is out of money. This year it is borrowing from the general treasury."
Evidence Summary: About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence, with healthcare, a pension and paid time off. “I’m not looking for sympathy for myself, but I do understand that people..across the government are having serious problems right now, because of this,” he said.

Claim: "Says that under his tax plan, seniors making less than $50,000 per year won't pay any income taxes."
Evidence Summary: Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's plan to fund a Green New Deal. The congresswoman recently suggested a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million to fund the program. She also outlined a key component of her platform: a universal basic income of $1,000 per month for all Americans 18 and older, which would be funded by a value-added tax. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don't earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income.

Claim: "Says Jeb Bush not only opposes marriage equality, hes said he personally believes gay couples should be banned from adopting children."
Evidence Summary: Gabbard spoke on behalf of the Alliance for Traditional Marriage and Values, a group headed by her father. The group drew controversy for supporting so-called conversion gay therapy, which views homosexuality as a mental illness. At the time, Gabbard also gave a lengthy speech at the Hawaii State House against a proposed resolution that addressed the bullying of gay students in public schools. Still, many of Trump’s L.G.B.T. supporters dispute that Trump is bad for gay people.

Claim: "Under Republican-backed state budget, the state education agency estimates expansion of Wisconsins school voucher program could cost nearly $2 billion annually"
Evidence Summary: House GOP leaders want to push Indiana school districts toward spending a higher percentage of their state funding on teachers and other classroom costs. The move comes as Republican Gov. Eric Holcomb and GOP lawmakers have said boosting teacher pay is a top priority for the new state budget. Republicans want to protect the state's $1.8 billion budget surplus, which Democrats suggest should be tapped to make money available for teacher pay. But a big increase in funding for the embattled Department of Child Services and a jump in Medicaid expenses are projected to consume the entire entire budget.

Claim: "Says Sen. Sherrod Brown voted to keep an extreme, job-killing Internal Revenue Service paperwork mandate."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Sherrod Brown is launching a tour of three states that cast pivotal early votes in the 2020 presidential primary. The move from the Ohio Democrat is a key step before he decides whether to launch a campaign for the White House. Brown won a third term in November on the strength of a message he calls the "Dignity of Work" Democrats plan to use a 1924 law to demand that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin turn over Trump's tax records to Richard Neal, the House Ways and Means Committee chairman.

Claim: "Girl Scouts USAs curriculum promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate."
Evidence Summary: Concerned Women for America – the nation's largest public policy women's organization – celebrates its 40th anniversary in 2019. We began our journey as a response to Betty Friedan and other feminists who boldly claimed to speak for all women, especially on the issue of abortion. The omission of Jewish women in leadership roles was ominous, and as I learned over the coming months, my feelings were justified. Abortion is one more excuse to neglect and discriminate against pregnant women, because it gives women the Faustian bargain of purported equality in exchange for the life of their child.

Claim: "Since 1988, Congress has raised its own salary 15 times to reflect rising costs. But raised the minimum wage only three times."
Evidence Summary: Congressional Democrats introduced legislation on Wednesday that would raise the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour. The federal wage floor currently prevails in the 21 states that don’t already mandate a higher one. The push behind the bill shows just how much the debate surrounding the minimum wage has shifted within the Democratic Party. It was just six years ago that President Barack Obama was pushing an increase in theminimum wage from $7.25 an hour, where it has now sat for nearly 10 years.

Claim: "The Alternative Minimum Tax was never intended to hit people in middle income, upper middle income. It was meant for people who are rich and evading taxes."
Evidence Summary: Oxfam: U.S. tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "The only winners in the race to the bottom on corporate tax are the wealthiest among us," O'Brien added. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," she said. Many of the arguments against taxes on the wealthy are “moralistic” rather than empirical. The argument that taxes on high earners are ‘slavery’ is incoherent.

Claim: "The average homeowner spends more than $2,000 each year on energy costs more than on either real estate taxes or homeowners insurance."
Evidence Summary: More energy efficient appliances helped save the average household £290 a year between 2008 and 2017. The financial crisis could also have played a role in making homes and businesses more careful with their energy use. The energy efficiency story doesn’t just apply to households. There have been major strides amongst firms, too. Big supermarkets have worked hard to improve the performance of their lighting and refrigeration. And because firms and individuals are using less energy, that has offset the rise in energy prices. So whilst the prices have gone up, often bills have gone down.

Claim: North Dakotas economy is reeling.
Evidence Summary: The oil and gas industry has been doing well in recent years for lots of reasons, including the Trump administration's push to open up vast areas of public land for drilling and to speed up the permitting process. If the shutdown goes on much longer it threatens to slow all that down and not just in Wyoming. The Federal Reserve decided to raise its target lending rate four times in 2018. Economists are not particularly troubled by that softening. They see it as a natural signal that the economy will grow more gradually this year.

Claim: "Says many local governments in Wisconsin already require employees to pay 20 percent, 30 percent or even 40 percent of their health insurance premiums."
Evidence Summary: Vermont is paying remote workers to move to the state. New Jersey requires all residents to have health insurance. 14 counties in Washington have only one carrier. counties where the 65-and-over population grew at least as fast as the nation and was larger than the national average were considered for the project. The state has earmarked $500,000 for the initiative, The Associated Press reported. It’s the second state in the country, after Massachusetts, to enact an individual health insurance mandate.

Claim: "(Mary) Burkes company, Trek Bicycles, makes 99% of their bikes overseas."
Evidence Summary: "Sometimes China is the easiest answer’ for companies seeking rapid growth, Yeti Holdings Inc. chief executive says. "But sometimes it’s not the best one for the long term," Matt Reintjes says. Auto Driveaway is expanding into heavy truck transport. Flatbed trucker Daseke Inc. named former Walmart Inc. transportation executive Chris Easter chief operating officer.Thousands of cricket shoes were stolen from a truck parked near Leeds in the U.S. (Yorkshire Post)

Claim: "Says as Indiana governor, he has made record investments in education."
Evidence Summary: Indiana Gov. Eric Holcomb announced plans to seek $140 million in the new two-year state budget to pay off teacher pension obligations owed by school districts. The Republican governor said 100 percent of that money should go toward teacher pay raises. Democrats have suggested tapping into the state's $1.8 billion reserves to give additional funding to schools. The extra money would amount to about 1 percent more funding to Indiana school districts, which are receiving an estimated $7.16 billion in state funding this school year.

Claim: "Casey Weinstein: No faith in our military ... When some of our cadets wanted to watch a religious film, Casey Weinstein sued the U.S. military. Sued our soldiers?"
Evidence Summary: Five of the alleged victims of the Rev. Michael "Mitch" Walters have settled their civil lawsuits against the Catholic Church for $400,000. The sixth case against Walters is still in court. A North Carolina county is shelling out $285,000 to the American Civil Liberties Union to settle a five-year-old lawsuit over its prayer practices. The ACLU said Camden County’s September 11th memorial violates the Establishment Clause of the Constitution. A second painting that raised the ire of the out-of-town atheists had already been relocated to a private area of the courthouse.

Claim: "Today, the Social Security system is broke."
Evidence Summary: About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence, with healthcare, a pension and paid time off. Allowing President Donald Trump to destroy our federal government this way over a failed 2016 campaign promise is un-American. Don't allow Trump to get away with this or he will just do it again.

Claim: "Says Julie Parrish wants to add a sales tax to everything we need to buy including food, clothing, medicine and school supplies."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Conservative United board member Jane Carrell sarcastically said that the flight of taxpaying citizens to other states apparently is not going quickly enough for the Illinois General Assembly. “The worst-kept secret in Springfield is a rumored massive gasoline and diesel tax hike. Just when gas prices are finally falling, and little more than a year after income taxes were hiked 32 percent, greedy politicians seem all too willing to take more of our hard-earned money. It’s just plain wrong,” she said.

Claim: "Says that over the last decade, the states population grew three times faster than the Texas state tax system."
Evidence Summary: It was the fifth straight year the state has seen a decline. Connecticut, another high-tax Blue State, also made the top 10 in population losses, watching more than 1,200 residents go elsewhere. As for high growth, Texas topped the list, adding nearly 380,000 people last year – as if the state had added another city the size of Arlington. Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000People, the data show. But Texas’ growth spurt actually came at a slower rate than those in previous years.

Claim: "If you survey, most (North Carolina) Democrats also agree with our (election) laws and voter ID."
Evidence Summary: Elections supervisors began accepting former felons’ registrations on Tuesday. There is no public record of how people who were removed from the rolls have historically voted. Democratic Party leaders in the state and nation emailed statements welcoming the new voters and accusing Republican politicians of attempting to silence them in the past. “Democrats will never stop fighting to expand access to the ballot and ensure that no one is silenced or sidelined on Election Day,” Tom Perez, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said in a statement.

Claim: "During a town hall meeting on health care, ""ABC didn't even allow ads that opposed the president's health care plan to be aired."""
Evidence Summary: ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, Fox broadcasting, Fox News Channel, Fox Business Network and MSNBC all said they would air the rebuttal. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer say they will make the case themselves. The dueling remarks come in the third week of the shutdown over the president's insistence that congressional Democrats approve more than $5 billion in spending for the U.S.-Mexico border wall. Critics pointed out that the networks aired President George W. Bush's prime-time address on immigration in 2006, but did not air one by President Barack Obama in 2014.

Claim: "Says Texas has one state inspector for every 4,500 oil and gas wells."
Evidence Summary: Environmental Protection Agency has furloughed most of its roughly 600 pollution inspectors. Their absence increases the chances that companies might emit illegal levels of contaminants into the air or water without detection, according to people familiar with the E.P.A. The advent of hydraulic fracturing in the early 2000s allowed companies to reach untapped reservoirs of oil and gas. Colorado now has more than 56,000 activeOil and gas wells, producing more than 1.7 million cubic feet of natural gas, the sixth most in the country.

Claim: "If you threw a barbecue yesterday for the Memorial weekend, it was 29 percent more expensive than last year because Barack Obamas policies have led to groceries going up 29 percent."
Evidence Summary: Trump: Americans "want to see what we're doing, like today we lowered prescription drug prices, first time in 50 years" The president also took credit for the recent increase in generic drug approvals, which he said would help lower drug prices. Trump's claim of positive pocketbook news for Americans appeared to be offered, at least in part, as an antidote to a sour 2018 on Wall Street, where stocks posted their worst performance in a decade. The plain fact of the matter is that for a lot of Americans, life simply sucks and isn't getting better.

Claim: "Says Catherine Cortez Masto failed Nevada rape victims. While attorney general, thousands of rape kits were never sent for DNA analysis."
Evidence Summary: Hania Noelia Aguilar, a 13-year-old girl who was raped and murdered after being kidnapped outside her home, broke hearts in the small community of Lumberton, North Carolina. DNA evidence from a rape kit linked the suspect to a 2016 rape case, giving the sheriff's office probable cause to seek a search warrant. The fact that the 2016 rape kit had been tested at all is remarkable, critics say. Between 14,000 to 15,000 other rape kits in North Carolina are waiting their turn.

Claim: The U.S. House rule barring members from wearing hats while in session dates back to the 1800s and can be waived by the speaker.
Evidence Summary: House votes on Democrats' rules package to govern conduct in the upcoming Congress. Some notable provisions include reviving the "Gephardt rule," which automatically raises the debt ceiling when the House passes a budget. Members would be required to have additional ethics training, and would be prohibited from serving on corporate boards. One provision would also amend the rule against wearing hats on the House floor to have religious exceptions, so that incoming Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Muslim, may wear her headscarf.

Claim: "Public support for abortion is actually going down a little bit, polls show."
Evidence Summary: A brand-new Marist poll conducted for the Knights of Columbus finds 3 out of 4 Americans support substantial restrictions on abortion – including limiting it to just the first three months of pregnancy. The survey also found that if the Supreme Court revisits the landmark Roe v. Wade decision, 49 percent of Americans support upholding abortion restrictions legislated by the states while another 16 percent supported outlawing the procedure completely. Just 30 percent of respondents favored a Supreme Court ruling allowing unrestricted abortion. The poll's release coincided with Friday's 46th annual March for Life in Washington. "As in past years, this poll shows that the pro-choice label on the abortion issue is simply insufficient,” Knights of. Columbus Supreme Knight Carl Anderson said in a statement.

Claim: "Students In Fla. High School Forced To Recite Islamic Prayer, Make Prayer Rugs."
Evidence Summary: A group of more than 1,000 Muslims organized by the Ahmadiyya Muslim Youth Association in the U.K. prayed their first prayer in 2019. They swarmed the streets with brooms and garbage bags to help groom their cities after the boozy celebration. They do it every year as an act of worship, fulfilling one of the five pillars of Islam: charity. Along with this annual rite invariably comes favorable press coverage, and the story promptly rose to the top of Reddit’s UpliftingNews subreddit.

Claim: "When I took office in 2003, we had very little reserves."
Evidence Summary: “When I became secretary of defense in 1977, the military services, most of all the army, were disrupted badly by the Vietnam War. There was general agreement that the Soviet Union outclassed the West in conventional military capability, especially in ground forces in Europe,” he wrote later. “I took office amid a great ethical, moral and economic crisis. I am committed to changing our history. We need the government to start focusing on our education," he said in a statement.

Claim: "The Congressional Budget Office has this economic model where they measure the economy going forward, and they are now telling us that the entire economy crashes in the year 2037 because their computer simulation cant conceive of any way in which the U.S. economy can continue."
Evidence Summary: With unemployment insurance claims near historic lows, GDP growth close to 3 percent, and the unemployment rate below 4 percent, there seems to be almost no indication from hard macroeconomic data that the U.S. economy is heading for recession. This insight also suggests that recessions are very difficult to predict – something which has borne out in practice (very few individuals forecasted the Great Recession of 2008). "The market is pricing in recession no matter what — the market has priced it in," said Jeff Carbone, managing partner at Cornerstone Wealth.

Claim: "There are more atheists in the country right now than Jews, Muslims, Hindus and Buddhists combined and doubled."
Evidence Summary: In 2018, Huffman and Raskin were among the founding members of the Congressional Freethought Caucus. In the years ahead, Speckhardt said he hopes Congress will make progress on initiatives of particular importance to nonbelievers. There will be no openly atheist torchbearer helping to lead that charge, at least for now. A recent poll suggested that in safely blue districts, a candidate’s atheism is a nonissue, or even a plus, for a large portion of the electorate.

Claim: "When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Japan? It doesnt exist, folks."
Evidence Summary: Carlos Ghosn: I have a genuine love and appreciation for Nissan. I believe strongly that in all of my efforts on behalf of the company, I have acted honorably, legally, and with the knowledge and approval of the appropriate executives inside the company. We transformed Nissan, moving it from a position of a debt of 2 trillion yen in 1999 to cash of 1.8 trillion yen at the end of 2006. We created, directly and indirectly, countless jobs in Japan and re-established Nissan as a pillar of the Japanese economy. These accomplishments were secured alongside the peerless team of Nissan employees worldwide.

Claim: Powerful Houston Democrats Sylvia Garcia (Democrat county commissioner in Harris County) and Elyse Lanie(r) (wife of the former liberal Democrat mayor Bob Lanier) sponsored a Democrat fundraiser for Speaker (Joe) Straus with numerous Democrat officials and high-ranking union officials.
Evidence Summary: Fox News has requested comment from more than a dozen Democratic officeholders who donor records indicate have received campaign money from Ed Buck. The first elected official to return a donation from Buck was California Rep. Karen Bass, who gave her $250 donation to Moore’s family well over a year ago. A campaign spokesperson for Arizona Sen. Krysten Sinema told Fox News last year that she donated $18,800 she’d received from Buck to the UMOM New Day Center. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which has also been the recipient of contributions from Buck, did not respond to questions from Fox News.

Claim: "Says that 500,000 federal workers -- one-fourth of the federal workforce -- make more than $100,000 a year."
Evidence Summary: About 14 percent of federal employees make under $50,000 a year, according to government data. Federal workers have lagged their private-sector counterparts when it comes to getting a pay hike. Maryland and Virginia, which employ many federal workers in the D.C. suburbs, are the two states where they make the most on average: $107,536 and $95,212, respectively. The number of people working for the federal government today is the same as it was 35 years ago.

Claim: "Were fifth in the world (in executions), behind China, Iran, Iraq and Saudi Arabia."
Evidence Summary: Windridge says the non-violent crimes fall "well short" of the standard required to make the death penalty acceptable under international law. Windridge points out that many of the slogans the accused are charged with chanting are benign and would, "even if proved to be true… fall well within permitted forms of expression under international human rights law" China is believed to execute more people annually than any other country, but is highly secretive about the number. Human rights group Amnesty International puts the figure in the thousands - more than the rest of the world's nations put together.

Claim: "Texas has 600,000 registered voters who dont have the kind of photo ID needed to vote."
Evidence Summary: The law would prevent states from aggressively purging the voter rolls by removing people if they don’t vote. Automatic registration added 727,924 people to the rolls since launch in April. The Pew Research Center found that more than 3 million people were registered to vote in more than one state. In addition, 1.8 million dead people were on the voter registration rolls. But even among some longtime activists, there's uncertainty about whether to register to vote right away or to wait until the governor and legislators weigh in.

Claim: Nazi imagery [was used] by the Block for Governor campaign to describe supporters of Allan Fung for Governor.
Evidence Summary: Shadow justice secretary Richard Burgon in court at start of libel trial against the Sun. Labour MP launched the libel action against the Rupert Murdoch-owned newspaper and its political editor, Tom Newton Dunn. School administrators in Minneapolis condemn as "anti-Semitic" and "outrageous" a social media post showing two students giving a Nazi salute. German politician who left far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party is setting up new party that has adopted a symbol used by Austrian Nazis and an anti-Semitic group in the 1930s.

Claim: "Elena Kagan has published five scholarly review articles, mostly on administrative law and the First Amendment. These articles were mostly on technical and procedural issues."
Evidence Summary: Nine of the 51 appointments are for spots on prestigious and influential federal appellate benches. President Trump has often derided the mostly liberal San Francisco-based Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Neomi Rao, the president's "regulatory czar," would replace now-Supreme Court Associate Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Also on the roll was Brian Buescher, for a seat as United States district judge for the District of Nebraska.. Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. announced that she would participate in the day’s two cases by reviewing the transcripts of the arguments.

Claim: "Says the Congressional Budget Office said if youre going to buy your own policy with these (health care) exchanges youll be paying 10 percent more ... about $2,100 more for a family."
Evidence Summary: The gains seen during the early years of Obamacare are being reversed. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014, according to federal data. The Trump administration on Thursday proposed changes that could raise health insurance costs for millions of Americans who get coverage on the job or receive subsidies under the Affordable Care Act. The proposal would raise the out-of-pocket maximum that people with employer-sponsored coverage pay in 2020.

Claim: "Russian annexation of Crimea removes a million residents of the Ukraine that have provided the margin of victory for (Viktor) Yanukovych, the pro-Moscow prime minister in his last election."
Evidence Summary: Russian President Vladimir Putin has seen part of his role as safeguarding the Orthodox faith. The proximity between the Kremlin, the Russian Orthodox Church and the Russian army has driven a wedge between the Russian church and Ukrainian believers. Tensions escalated in the religious and political schisms after Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014, following the ouster of a pro-Moscow president in Kiev. The war in eastern Ukraine that erupted between Ukrainian forces and Russian-backed separatists after the annexation has left more than 10,000 people dead.

Claim: "Says a man opted out of Obamacare after the marketplace launched on Oct. 1, 2013, and was informed he owed a $4,000 fine."
Evidence Summary: The O’Connor kerfuffle is the latest chapter in the endless legal attack on the ACA. It is also the most frivolous. The case springs from Congress’ decision in 2017 to ax the penalty for Americans who fail to purchase health insurance. The penalty is $695 per person or 2.5 percent of income, whichever is larger. There is also considerable uncertainty about what will happen with refunds. The Republican tax package repealed the Affordable Care Act’s fines on people who didn’t obtain health coverage.

Claim: "Says that according to a study, under Obamas health care initiative, nearly 90 percent of people in Wisconsin with health insurance will have their costs go up by more than 30 percent."
Evidence Summary: The tide has shifted, and the gains seen during the early years of Obamacare are being reversed. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014. At its peak, just after Obamacare was passed but before it went into effect, nearly one-in-five Americans lacked health insurance. In October, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced that average monthly premiums on Healthcare.gov will decrease for the first time in 2019.

Claim: "Four times, I said, he (John McCain)is a hero, but you know ... people choose selective pieces."
Evidence Summary: "I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, or the sadness gripping their souls. How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?" John Avlon says John McCain's op-ed is a moral and ethical takedown of the president of the United States by a new senator from his own party. Avlon: This comes as Trump meets with congressional leaders today to talk about border security.

Claim: PolitiFact Wisconsin concluded that the charge that Justice Prosser prejudges matters that come before the court is True.
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court delayed enforcement of the court order, mainly because the justices already were considering the partisan districting cases from Maryland and Wisconsin. Common Cause, the watchdog group that supports limits on partisan line-drawing, is leading the challenge to the North Carolina districts. "It's hard for me to conceive of a conclusion that would, you know, run afoul of the regs as currently written. But that's certainly my intent," said Common Cause president Karen Hobert Flynn.

Claim: "Says that before health care reform, one of every three health care dollars spent -- more than $800 billion a year -- didnt go for health care."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. We’re deeply invested in the myth that medicine has drastically increased the human lifespan and will continue to do so, says Gary Lieberman, co-founder of West Health. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found.

Claim: "As many as 22,000 Americans die each year because they dont have health insurance."
Evidence Summary: Smoking, poor diet and lack of exercise account for the vast majority of deaths in the U.S. Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year, that’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. In 2018, pollsters found 13.7% of Americans lacked health insurance, the highest levels since 2014. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Eighty-five percent . . . of Rhode Island tax returns that were filed for the year 2010 . . . were from individuals who earned $30,000 or less."
Evidence Summary: A poll taken last weekend by The Hill-HarrisX found 59 percent support for taking income over $10 million at 70 percent. A 2017 Reuters-Ipsos poll found 76 percent of respondents agreeing with the proposition that “the wealthiest Americans should pay higher tax rates. In Illinois, where newly elected Gov. J.B. Pritzker has promised to work to overturn the state constitutional ban on graduated state income tax rates, 76 percent expressed support for an extra 3-percent tax.

Claim: "Says the Southwest Florida Water Management District has $850 million in reserves, enough money in savings to run without levying taxes for more than two years."
Evidence Summary: The federal government is the city's largest water customer. It told the utility company it wouldn't be paying $5 million of its quarterly bill during the shutdown. Despite last year's loss, the foundation has generated $17.6 million in interest, not including the first two weeks of this year. "Water is leverage," says DC Water spokesperson Vincent Morris. "No one wants to go without it." "If [he] hadn't called in to report a chemical smell in the water, we may never have known about it," says former Santa Rosa Water director.

Claim: "John McCain ""began his career in Washington as a lobbyist when he was appointed in 1976 as the Navy's liaison to the United States Senate."""
Evidence Summary: Shanahan, a native of Washington state, had worked for Boeing since 1986. His views on strategic issues such as U.S. alliances and the wars in Afghanistan and Syria are largely unknown to the public. The late Senate Armed Services Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.) was among those expressing qualms about Shanahan's ties to Boeing during his confirmation hearing to be deputy secretary in June 2017. Shanahan holds a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Washington and two advanced degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Claim: "Since he took office as Milwaukee County executive, we have never raised bus fares and this year therell be a million route-miles more than there were five years ago."
Evidence Summary: Mayor Rahm Emanuel has increased the tax on ride-share trips to help fund the CTA, making Chicago the first city to do this. The discussion comes during a long-term decline in bus ridership, which has fallen by by 21 percent since 2012. The CTA has cited the growth of ride-sharing services like Uber and low gas prices as factors behind the drop. The city’s share of dedicated bus lanes is still low, at just 4.1 miles compared with 82.8 miles in New York.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama promised he would cut the deficit in half, but instead will at least double it."
Evidence Summary: The US faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles — if he has, his modesty would not have prevented him from mentioning it — the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. The most repeated lie – 187 times and counting – is that the Russia investigation is a “witch hunt”, followed by Trump’s assertion, made 125 times, that his government passed “the biggest tax cuts in the history of our country”

Claim: "Says Rob Portman voted for the bipartisan bill to affirm climate change is real, humans significantly contribute to it and it needs to be addressed."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker announced he will step down from the E.P.A. board. The announcement comes one day after a new survey shows almost half of Americans are more convinced climate change is happening than they were five years ago. A stark political divide on the science still exists, however: While 86% of Democrats say climateChange is happening, just 52% of Republicans concur. The survey data was collected by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago and The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.

Claim: Says some [states] with the largest reductions in crime have also lowered their prison population.
Evidence Summary: The data on crime, and what it says about reforms, has been contested. Small upticks in some types of crime in some areas has muddied the picture. Activists see parallels in the strategies of opponents of more lenient sentencing laws in California and the rhetoric on crime at the national level. For instance, violent crime rose in California in 2012 and between 2015 and 2017, allowing opponents of the laws to point to increases. But scholars say arguments about criminal justice policies should not be based on short-term fluctuations — and that overall crime rates are declining.

Claim: "Today, our unemployment rate is 7.8 percent. That is the lowest in five years."
Evidence Summary: An average of 220,000 jobs were added each month last year, the best performance since 2015. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon, saying the "tremendous" jobs number was partly due to companies such as auto manufacturers repatriating to the U.S. after moving some of their production abroad.

Claim: "Says she was the the only Democrat who voted against the Wall Street bailout."""
Evidence Summary: When the economy teetered on collapse in 2008, she was “very constructive’ in getting Democrats to back a $700-billion bailout of the U.S. financial system. She simultaneously battled with the White House on funding for the Iraq war. Pelosi brought her caucus together to support Bush on bailing out the banks during the 2008 financial crisis. Her daughter, Alexandra, spent the 2000 presidential campaign covering Bush and then made a documentary called “Journeys with George”

Claim: "Al Sharpton went to Ferguson, Mo., and is declaring as a matter of fact that ...Michael Brown didnt use any deadly force or posed no deadly threat to the officer."
Evidence Summary: Witness descriptions of a white man in his forties at the scene of the shooting – and a sketch put out by police – prompted widespread speculation a hate crime had happened. Dr. King visited New York City throughout the 1960s and called attention to its racial problems. In Harlem in 1963, he spoke to an audience of some 15,000 white people as City College’s commencement speaker. Fewer than 2 percent of the graduates that day were black, giving visual proof to his admonition that the “de facto segregation of the North was as injurious as the legal segregation in the South.”

Claim: "Why are Muslim armies so useless against ISIS? ... There are 20,000 or 30,000 (ISIS fighters). The countries surrounding ISIS have armies totaling 5 million people."
Evidence Summary: Jayson Pihajlic served with the Marines in Iraq before deciding to go fight Islamic State. “They were more of a deterrent force than people kicking in doors,” he said. Tapper noted that U.S. military intelligence attributed Wednesday’s attack in the Syrian city of Manbij to ISIS. Having troops on the ground in permanent wars overseas does nothing to prevent terrorists from attacking us here, but it does engender animosity and come at great cost.

Claim: "John McCain said ""he wouldn't even sit down with the government of Spain, a NATO ally that has troops in Afghanistan with us now."""
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump ridiculed other nations’ commitment of troops to fight alongside America’s in Afghanistan. Trump has long criticized NATO allies, saying that they have not contributed enough military spending. The New York Times reported Monday that the president privately discussed withdrawing from the military alliance multiple times over the past year. Current and former officials who support the alliance said they feared Mr. Trump could return to his threat as allied military spending continued to lag behind the goals the president had set. The full text of the president's remarks on Afghanistan are available on the White House website.

Claim: "John McCain wants to ""give oil companies another $4-billion"" in tax breaks."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez suggested funding her proposed “Green New Deal” by the marginal tax rate of 70 percent on those making $10 million or more. O’Rourke’s embrace of a Green New Deal is likely to face skepticism among progressives advocating the policy. In December the investigative news site Sludge found that he accepted $430,000 from individuals working in the oil and gas industry, 75 percent of which came in the form of donations over $200.

Claim: "Under Greg Abbott, Texas four-year-olds would be forced to undergo standardized tests."
Evidence Summary: The Texas Legislature returns Tuesday, and unlike places such as Colorado and Minnesota where Democrats seized control of legislative chambers in November's midterm elections, Republicans remain firmly in power. Texas' last legislative session ended with one lawmaker threatening to shoot another after reporting Hispanic protesters to immigration agents. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham is ordering the suspension and rapid replacement of the state’s current standardized academic exams.

Claim: I cut state spending more than anybody (in the 2016 GOP field).
Evidence Summary: Republicans shed several hundred state legislative seats: 253 to be precise. Other states where Republicans absorbed big losses while maintaining legislative power include Georgia, Pennsylvania and Virginia. Republicans remain obsessed with former secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email system, insisting Team Clinton was not only stupid and careless (it was), but also criminal (despite the Justice Department concluding it wasn’t) The states most dependent on federal funds (“takers”) tend to vote Republican (such as Kentucky), and the states paying more than they receive in Federal funding tend toVote for Democrats. So, find ways to cut the federal dole to ‘taker’ states and return more money to “maker” states.

Claim: "Since Mr. Fosters been mayor, we have less small businesses in the city of St. Petersburg."
Evidence Summary: "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes," Brisben said. "The mayors and parties are to blame," he said, alleging that mayors had registered other towns' residents. "During your leadership, more jobs have left, the roads are worse, the taxes have increased, and you flat-out don’t represent the people in this state," he added. "You seem to represent the power brokers who keep you in office. Time to make real change"

Claim: "In America, we pay, by far, the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs."
Evidence Summary: Americans pay more for prescription drugs than people in most other developed nations. A common acid-reflux drug costs $215 in the United States but $33 in the Netherlands. A recent poll found that more than 90 percent of Americans favor allowing Medicare to negotiate with drug manufacturers. More than half of Americans say lowering drug costs needs to be a top priority for Congress and the White House, says Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif. He says Congress must investigate the underlying reasons Americans face such high prices for prescription medication.

Claim: "I was totally against the war in Iraq, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle East."
Evidence Summary: "He told you that radical Islamist terrorism does not stem from ideology," Pompeo said of Obama. "The results of these misjudgments have been dire," he added. Pompeo blamed the Obama administration's policies for allowing violence and extremism to flourish. "In falsely seeing ourselves as a force for what ails the Middle East, we were timid about asserting ourselves when the times — and our partners — demanded it," he said. "His recent choices, unfortunately, are already giving the Islamic State — and other American adversaries — new life"

Claim: Claims that Rep. Sanford Bishop votes similar to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi are inaccurate.
Evidence Summary: Jeanine Pirro walked back a false claim in her interview with President Donald Trump. The Fox News host said Pelosi was in Puerto Rico with a bunch of her Democrat colleagues. The false claim illustrates Pelosi’s description of how Trump confounds negotiations. Pelosi's granddaughter Bella stole the show as her grandmother was sworn in as the new House speaker. She was spotted pumping her fists and clapping as the votes poured in for the California Democrat. Many on social media were excited for Bella's excitement.

Claim: "Crimea was part of Russia until 1954, when it was given to the Soviet Republic of the Ukraine."
Evidence Summary: Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. In November, Russia detained three Ukrainian navy vessels and their crews in the Black Sea near the Kerch Strait. Russia’s relations with the United States plummeted when Moscow annexed the Crimean peninsula from Ukraine. Washington and Western allies have imposed a broad range of sanctions on Russian officials, companies and banks. (The story corrects first paragraph to reflect demand for retired Marine’S return is conditioned on Russia”s explanation; also corrects Update 3.)

Claim: "The stimulus includes ""$7 million to build a bridge in Thedford, Nebraska, to help 168 residents avoid a 30-second wait at a local train crossing. Not one full-time job will be created."""
Evidence Summary: About 800,000 federal workers have been affected by the 22 December closure of about a quarter of the federal government. Trump has said he will keep the government shut down until and unless the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives heed his demand for $5.7 billion to build more than 200 miles of walls between the U.S. and Mexico borders. States are feeling less of a pinch with federal highway dollars than transit money. But some are becoming more nervous as construction season approaches, said Jim Tymon, executive director of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.

Claim: "Under former President George W. Bushs administration while the population in that period grew by 10 percent, the number of jobs in the nation grew by 1 percent."
Evidence Summary: U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. President Trump cut taxes, slashed regulations, and encouraged domestic energy production. Through his first six quarters in office, economic growth doubled from Obama’s 1.5 percent to 3 percent. Bill Clinton holds the record for largest numeric increase in the workforce, 23m jobs over his two terms. Even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being "the greatest jobs president that God ever created"

Claim: "A little less than 50 percent of the people in this country depend on some form of federal payment, some form of government benefit to help provide for them."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Obama says. "And I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments," he adds. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he says of the nation's debt ceiling. "Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling," Obama adds. 'It's crucial that we tackle this issue head on,' he says.

Claim: "There are approximately 20,000 annual gun purchases in Rhode Island."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik’s commentary distorted a few facts, says Yvonne Smith. It is true firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, Smith says. But there are also many unregistered guns in circulation, she says. Smith: Criminal minds care less about the law than the man in the moon. It's time to deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets, she writes. The real problem is young people turning into victims and perpetrators of violence, says Smith.

Claim: "Before Congress, (Tom) Cotton got paid handsomely working for insurance companies and corporate interests."
Evidence Summary: Hatch’s influence on American health care partly came from the sheer number of bills he sponsored — more than any other living lawmaker. “History was on his side because the Republicans were in charge,” said Dr. David Sundwall, an emeritus professor in public health at the University of Utah. America has a long tradition of part-time public service, and the tradition may seem romantic. In some states, farmers still leave their plows to serve in brief legislative sessions every odd year.

Claim: "It will cost $50,000 per enrollee in Obamacare over the next 10 years."
Evidence Summary: Bernie Sanders' Medicare-for-all plan is estimated to cost tens of trillions of dollars over a decade. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act.

Claim: "According to HUD, it is patently unfair and socially unjust that wealthy people can live in an exclusive neighborhood."
Evidence Summary: Buchanan: "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes" The higher the costs of housing, the more those who suffer from lower wages and higher debt are forced to the margins of the market. African Americans are overrepresented in the group of people suffering from this inequality, demonstrating yet again how race is firmly linked to class in the United States. The effects of “fair housing” have been imperceptible in large swaths of the country, where poor and working-class African Americans live in racially segregated enclaves.

Claim: "Says when he was governor,we expanded participation in Virginia in early childhood programs by nearly 40 percent."
Evidence Summary: Governor-elect has pledged to increase spending on early childhood education and a few other programs. Newsom has also proposed expanding state-funded health care to low-income people living in the country illegally until their 26th birthday. He acknowledged the state’s “stagnant wages,’’ rising rents, “inequality of wealth,” and “we have a homeless epidemic that should keep every one of us up at night.” He vowed to be “prudent stewards of taxpayer dollars, pay down debt, and meet our future obligations’

Claim: The next state budget will begin with a surplus of over half a billion dollars -- $535 million to be exact.
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom proposed a $144 billion general fund budget in his first spending plan Thursday, up 4 percent from the current year. His budget includes $13.6 billion to build the state’s reserves and to pay down state debt and its growing pension liability. Newsom will release his own revenue estimates along with his budget, which could include an even larger surplus if his economic forecasts are rosier. He promised in his inaugural address Monday that his budget would be bold. “We will aim high and we will work like hell to get there,” he said.

Claim: "Says that since he took office, there have been no large-scale attacks on the United States."
Evidence Summary: The president stopped short of declaring the national emergency he’s spoken of in recent days. He also steered clear, after days of criticism, of repeating some of the false claims that thousands of terrorists were crossing the border. But as he often does at political rallies, he vividly described a few violent crimes allegedly committed by people who are in the U.S. illegally. Four Americans were among the 19 people killed in a bombing in northern Syria for which ISIS has claimed responsibility. The attack came just weeks after Mr. Trump ordered the withdrawal of American troops from the county.

Claim: "Twenty two years ago, when he was running for governor, Bill Nelson missed 56 percent of his votes in the U.S. House."
Evidence Summary: Florida is the largest U.S. state to not automatically restore voting rights to most felons who’ve completed their sentence. But Floridians overwhelmingly voted to change this in November when they passed Amendment 4 with 64 percent of vote. Some 1.4 million voters could be added to the state’s rolls thanks to amendment. “I’m kind of skeptical that we’re going to see this big jump in terms of new registrations,” Professor Smith said.

Claim: "Under Governor Crist, 3,000 teachers laid off."
Evidence Summary: Teachers in the Los Angeles Unified School District went on strike this week. The teachers, who have been without a contract for nearly a year, walked off the job on Monday. LAUSD officials have kept all 1,200 of its schools open on a limited basis with skeleton staff of administrators and substitute teachers. The strike also drew attention to how California, one of the wealthiest and most liberal states in the country, spends relatively little on its public schools. The state’s chronically constrained school spending is largely attributed to its property tax laws, and especially to Proposition 13.

Claim: "Texas prosecutor Rosemary Lehmberg purchased 72 bottles of vodka in just one store alone, in just over a year."
Evidence Summary: Renee Burke, 40, of Holbrook, New York, pleaded not guilty on Thursday to attempted murder, burglary, assault, and endangering the welfare of a child. Prosecutors said she broke into Matthew Burke's apartment on at least three occasions in September and was caught on surveillance camera putting antifreeze in his drinks in an attempt to kill him. After one of the incidents, their son allegedly told a babysitter, “Mommy put something in Daddy’s drink."

Claim: "SaysMichele Bachmann said on Fox News, This country could use a president like Benjamin Franklin again."
Evidence Summary: The next time you hear a nasty attack on President Trump, consider what people wrote and said about President Lincoln. Johnson is hardly the first anti-Trump figure to make a Hitler comparison, following others like actress Jane Fonda and “The Daily Show’s” Trevor Noah. “Donald Trump and his 'Make America Great Again' followers…want to return American back to a time where white men and white privilege were unchallenged, and where minorities and women were in their place” – Charles Krauthammer.

Claim: "By declaring that Pluto was no longer a planet, the (International Astronomical Union) put into place a planetary definition that would have even declassified Earth as a planet if it existed as far from the sun as Pluto does."
Evidence Summary: The New Horizons probe, about the size of a piano, has been flying through space for more than a dozen years. It provided the first-ever close-up of Pluto in 2015. From the beginning, the mission always planned to fly by another object in the solar system's Kuiper belt. But it wasn't until 2014 that the Hubble Space Telescope discovered this one, which could be reached with the spacecraft's remaining fuel. "It's going to revolutionize our knowledge of planetary science," Stern says.

Claim: "I was appointed U.S. attorney by President Bush on Sept. 10, 2001."
Evidence Summary: The Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel said the government has identified over 160 times throughout U.S. history when presidents appointed non-Senate-confirmed government officials to serve in high level positions. The opinion said that while courts have held that the Constitution requires principal officers to be confirmed by the Senate, "it does not follow that Acting Attorney General should be understood to be one," because the person appointed in that capacity is not in a "continuing and permanent" position. 120 former top Justice Department officials sent a letter of support to Bill Barr on Thursday.

Claim: "Says there are probably 2 million, it could be even 3 million criminal immigrants in the country illegally."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post offered a series of “fact checks” following President Trump’s primetime address from the Oval Office on border security. One of them raised eyebrows, as it complained the president's crime stats were too comprehensive. The Washington Post tweeted in reference to the 266,000 arrests, “The number is right but misleading” It then pointed to statistics that show 158,581 arrests in 2018 were for civil immigration violations. “So the numbers add up, but they’re misleading,” the Washington Post said.

Claim: "The most popular name is no longer John or Steven. Its Jose, Camilo and Maria."
Evidence Summary: The Whitakers were doing well. Kent was a successful accountant. Trisha, an elementary school teacher, had a great rapport with children. The fact that he is on social media in touch with people with similar backgrounds, I don’t find particularly surprising.”“What I don't see are a lot of movement leaders,” Richard Schlesinger says. “I was it. I was Betty Jones,’’ Colleen Jones says of the moment she found out about her husband.

Claim: "English ""is our national language...if it becomes official, that means in a place like New York City you can't print ballots in any other language."""
Evidence Summary: Election Day would become a federal holiday for 2 million-plus federal workers. Non-government employers would be encouraged to give the day off to private-sector employees. Colleges and universities would be designated as voter registration agencies. Absentee ballots would no longer require postage. The bill would also increase funding to help states update and secure election infrastructure. The Department of Homeland Security would be ordered to deem election systems as critical infrastructure. Paper ballots and paper-based machines are more efficient, secure and cost-effective. Paper does not break down and cannot be hacked.

Claim: "When a Gallup poll asked about presidential candidate characteristics, When they get to the question on, Would you vote for a socialist, it is even less popular than voting for atheists."
Evidence Summary: A recent poll commissioned by the AHA suggested that in safely blue districts, a candidate’s atheism is a nonissue, or even a plus, for a large portion of the electorate. With some members of Congress likely identifying as religious only to avoid the potential negative repercussions of saying they don’t believe in God, the nonbeliever community must show that it will have the back of any politician who publicly embraces the atheist mantle. The Pew poll found just one member of Congress reporting no affiliation at all, whereas 23 percent of all U.S. adults so identify.

Claim: "Says in Chicago, we take more guns off the streets than New York or L.A."
Evidence Summary: The weekend of Aug. 4, 2018, brought a stunning surge in gun violence to Chicago. 75 people shot, 13 of them fatally. The city must “start treating it as the public health epidemic that it is,” Lori Lightfoot says. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," she says. The detective division in the Chicago Police Department has to be held more accountable for its dismal clearance rates, she adds. The last two homicides of 2018 were in Washington Park and Princeton Park.

Claim: "Under Randi Shade, Austin has had the highest cost of living of any large Texas city."
Evidence Summary: Two years later, residents recall the influx of media outsiders with disdain. Roberts county, in the heart of America’s Bible belt, has voted Republican with giant margins for decades. No Democrat since Harry Truman in 1948 has even come close to taking this area, which swung red years before the racist politics of the Southern Strategy secured Republican control of America's south. But at the midpoint of the Trump presidency, the Texas panhandle goes some way to show the extent of unwavering loyalty that remains among his base.

Claim: "Says that under the new healthcare law, full- and part-time workers will be required to buy insurance costing $375 to $1,000 a month, starting in 2014."
Evidence Summary: During the fourth quarter of 2018, 14 percent of Americans were uninsured. That’s up from 11 percent at the end of 2016, and the increase has been steady over the months since then. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. The uninsured rate in New York City is about 7 percent, the same as New York state and lower than the national rate of 10 percent as of 2017.

Claim: Newt Gingrich has suggested building a mirror system in space could improve the Earths habitability.
Evidence Summary: The U.S. is looking at putting a layer of sensors in space to more quickly detect enemy missiles when they are launched. A new review concludes that in order to adequately protect America, the Pentagon must expand defense technologies in space. And finally, it means weaning ourselves off fossil fuels, which is challenged by the fact that the majority of the world’s richest companies have made their money from the fossil fuel economy. If you have a thought, a comment, a criticism or a suggestion for story ideas, do please get in touch with us by email at theupside@theguardian.com.

Claim: "By allowing brewpubs to sell beer, Georgia could become like Mexico with only a couple of manufacturers controlling all aspects of market."
Evidence Summary: The partial government shutdown has idled a division of the Treasury Department that regulates manufacturers of craft beer. Some beer and alcohol producers are not able to get approval to sell their existing products across their state lines. The owners of newer or expanding breweries may be forced to sign leases on buildings not knowing when they will eventually be able to manufacture their product. According to a New York Times report, this is a $76bn industry and the more than 7,000 breweries that make it up not only rely on government permission for their livelihoods.

Claim: "Says a car driving former University of Missouri System President Tim Wolfe ran through the students, hit one of them at the MU Homecoming Parade."
Evidence Summary: The University of Oklahoma condemns its students who produced a blackface video. At least one of the pupils was kicked out of her sorority over the offensive stunt. A bitter lawsuit between Chicago State University and two professors is coming to an end. President Donald Trump tweeted early Tuesday that the students at Covington Catholic High School "have become symbols of Fake News and how evil it can be" The video initially focused on the students wearing "Make America Great Again" hats who seemed to laugh derisively at an elderly Native American beating a drum.

Claim: "The CBO found that the House Republican health care plan would lower premiums by ""up to about 10 percent"" and, for purchasers in the individual market, ""those cost savings could even be higher."""
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration announced proposed rule changes that would lead to a modest premium increase next year under the Affordable Care Act. The roughly 1 percent increase could feed into the Democratic argument that the Trump administration is trying to "sabotage" coverage for millions. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. President Trump, who once predicted "Obamacare" would "implode" or "explode," took credit for calm insurance markets. But in October the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced that average monthly premiums on Healthcare.gov will decrease for the first time in 2019.

Claim: I just want to assure [you] were not talking about cutting Medicare benefits.
Evidence Summary: Under a law signed by President Obama several years ago, the White House’s Office of Management and Budget is required to make across-the-board cuts to other programs if any new deficit-increasing legislation is enacted. Hammill argued that if Congress were to pass a new entitlement program like those being championed by liberals, Mick Mulvaney, who also serves as OMB director, could take the scissors to other federal programs Democrats support. Khanna had tweeted his opposition to the measure earlier: “I will be voting NO on the Rules package with #PayGo.”

Claim: "When we had a conservative Republican president we were losing 750,000 jobs a month."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. Paul Ryan’s impassioned denunciations of federal debt won him media adulation and awards. America was about to embark on a period of cutbacks in government spending unprecedented in the face of high unemployment, writes Julian Zelizer. The Simpson-Bowles report was the talk of the town, Zelizer says.

Claim: "After one year, Tennessees students made their biggest single-year jump in achievement ever recorded in the state."
Evidence Summary: Just 22 percent of the high school graduates who enrolled in Tennessee Promise in 2015 had graduated two years later. Nearly half – 48 percent – had dropped out. The percentage of Tennessee residents with a degree beyond high school was in the low 30s – nearly 10 points below the national average at the time. Haslam created a statewide initiative to bring that up to 55 percent by 2025. The centerpiece of that initiative was free college, and it's shown early promise. The state’s college-going rate jumped 5 percentage points the first year it went into effect.

Claim: Bill McCollum diverted a state plane to his home 53 times. A state auditor called it: likely a misuse of state resources.
Evidence Summary: “It should be of grave concern that Counts 1-3 were brought by the government at all,” Kerry Connor, Buncich’s attorney, wrote in a brief filed publicly in court records Tuesday. “Either he knew what was going on during his constant conversations with McCrae Dowless about his absentee ballot program, having been warned about the fraud, and he should be in jail. Or he turned a blind eye to fraud, he built a culture of corruption, that represents the worst in our politics," McCready said.

Claim: "Says 23 percent of ninth graders in Newark will graduate with a high school diploma in four years and we spend $100,000 on their education in those four years, more than is spent on any other set of students in the United States."
Evidence Summary: Los Angeles public schools provide a lousy education that costs taxpayers more than sending students to most private schools. The problem isn’t money; it’s government incompetence. According to one recently published study, funding for California schools falls 38% short of where it should be to meet needs defined by the state itself. Poorer students benefit from additional state and federal grant money, but their needs are also higher and the shortfall reaches as high as 47% at the bottom end of the socio-economic pile.

Claim: "Bob Menendez just voted to increase the governments debt ceiling to $1.9 TRILLION! In his 19 years in Congress, Menendez has helped overspend America over $15 TRILLION into debt."
Evidence Summary: The BOLD PAC has been largely mum on which Democrats attended the trip, but it has since emerged that New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez and New York Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, were also present. A picture of Menendez on the beach particularly irked the senator, who lashed out against Fox News for publishing it. To win the anxious middle-class vote, politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters, especially on health care and education.

Claim: "Says Rep. Tammy Duckworth has been a staunch supporter of expanding the spending, size and reach of the IRS."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., spent a fair amount of time in the first week of her campaign apologizing for her past positions that were significantly more centrist and conservative than where the Democratic Party is today. Warren also highlighted her push to build 3.2 million housing units across the country, called for legalizing marijuana, repairing the criminal justice system, and she received one of her biggest applause when she touted “I believe in science.” Ocasio-Cortez’s 70 percent income tax rate is the opening shot in a renewed war against middle class taxpayers.

Claim: Says the Obama administration will no longer enforce the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA).
Evidence Summary: At issue is a requirement under ObamaCare that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. Obama officials included exemptions for religious organizations. The Trump administration expanded those exemptions and added “moral convictions” as a basis to opt out. The rules, scheduled to take effect Monday, would change an ObamaCare mandate by allowing more employers, including publicly traded companies, to claim religious objections. Some private employers could also object on moral grounds. About 70,500 women would lose coverage, putting them at risk of unintended pregnancies, Beetlestone wrote.

Claim: "There are only four countries in the world that ... legalize abortion after five months -- China, North Korea, Canada and the U.S."
Evidence Summary: In 1973, Roe v. Wade allowed elective abortion throughout all nine months of a woman's pregnancy. Today, the United States is one of only seven countries allowing late term abortions, alongside China and North Korea. Women who survive life-threatening abortions and miscarriages are increasingly being criminalized, from Guatemala to Indiana. Those who favor women’s rights are not running away from fundamental principles like conscience. They are embracing the reality that women's rights are human rights. In the U.S., 6 in 10 Catholic voters say abortion can be a moral choice. In my home country of Ireland 66 percent of voters said yes to legal abortion.

Claim: "First, he (Obama) opposed the surge. Then he confidently predicted that it would fail. Then he tried to prevent funding for the troops who carried out the surge."
Evidence Summary: Trump's tweet is deceptive, linking to a video clip that shows Obama, as president, discussing "an actual humanitarian crisis on the border" Obama's remarks do not support Trump's proposal for a border wall, which the former president has criticized. Instead, Obama was asking Congress to approve an emergency appropriation to deal with the surge. "As commander-in-chief, I have determined that it is in our vital national interest to send an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan," Obama said.

Claim: "Under energy efficiency legislation sponsored by U.S. Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, federal bureaucrats could take over the local building code enforcement in your city if so-called green mandates are not complied with quickly enough."
Evidence Summary: The bill is the second major piece of energy legislation from Constantinides in a little over five weeks. In November, he introduced legislation to cut emissions from buildings of more than 25,000 square feet by 80 percent by 2050. The bill marks a significant step toward weaning the nation’s largest and most economically influential city off fossil fuels. Six cities across the United States already generate 100 percent of their electricity with renewables. But it would be a historic first for a metropolis like New York to shutter existing gas plants like these.

Claim: "Currently, Florida is one of only five states in the nation that prohibit citizens from buying electricity from companies that will put solar panels on your home or business."
Evidence Summary: Solar farms are cropping up on Illinois’ open land, spurred by state requirements and a new state program. Several built-up suburbs are carving out room for solar power as well. There is little room for large-scale solar farms in some suburbs that have set lofty renewable energy goals, but they are seeking other ways to support solar energy. Their efforts, driven in part by a state law that took effect in 2017, could mean drastic changes to the way homeowners, businesses and residents buy electricity.

Claim: "Federal spending is all discretionary, other than interest on the national debt. Social Security is discretionary. We have the discretion to change the law. Same is true with Medicare and Medicaid."
Evidence Summary: “Discretionary” spending is another word for an appropriation. Congress wields “discretion” over spending that money or not. “Mandatory’ spending is on automatic pilot. Entitlements, like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, don’t get an annual appropriation.“This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for, we need a federal law.” “The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will actually get things done"

Claim: "By age 65, the average woman will have lost $431,000 throughout her working career was a result of the pay gap."
Evidence Summary: Wage gap that women experience in their working years morphs into a gender retirement gap. A smaller nest egg ultimately would threaten economic security later in life. Women often can face a wealth gap, in part, because of family or life expectations set for women – ranging from parenting to care-giving duties for elders. People in the Commonwealth Fund study who exhausted their savings because of illness face more financial hurdles as they approach Medicare age. The average caregiver spends $7,000 a year on their care recipient.

Claim: "I am the only candidate that has endorsed Bernie Sanders for President. In PA, Ive got Bernies back."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., is hoping to make a comeback after aiming to inspire a progressive movement during his 2016 campaign. “We began the political revolution in the 2016 campaign, and now it's time to move that revolution forward,” he told Vermont Public Radio on Feb. 19. Some Democrats are perturbed by Beto O'Rourke's individualistic style, and his merely lukewarm embrace of fellow Texas Democrat Gina Ortiz-Jones during the midterms.

Claim: "John McCain ""took on the drug industry."""
Evidence Summary: Democrats and Republicans should pick out a few areas of agreement to work on together, shielded from partisan politics. Work together on opioids and mental health. With Democrats in control of the House and drug costs registering as a top issue with the public, now is the time to vote on allowing Medicare to negotiate prescription drug prices. The FDA’s credibility has been badly damaged by the opioid crisis amid accusations that at times it behaved less as a regulator overseeing the pharmaceutical industry than a business partner of drug manufacturers.

Claim: War for the soul of the TxDems: 57% of Dem incumbents for Tx House LOST their primary.
Evidence Summary: Texas' last legislative session ended with one lawmaker threatening to shoot another after reporting Hispanic protesters to immigration agents. Now comes a test: whether a humbling 2018 for Texas Republicans will soften one of the most hard-right statehouses in the country. The party in power after the 2020 election will draw new voting maps — an upper hand Republicans used last time to carve Texas into a 101-49 House supermajority in 2011. "I think the voters made it clear what issues they want us focused on," says Republican state Rep. Jeff Leach, who held onto his suburban district.

Claim: "Almost 88,000 United States service members are still missing and unaccounted for, dating back to World War II."
Evidence Summary: "I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, or the sadness gripping their souls. How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?" Cheshire said in a statement. "Today, our hearts go out to everyone who had to endure the pain of losing loved ones during the Holocaust," he said. "We pledge to continue our effort that the memories of those who were murdered live on"

Claim: "Says judges are using Shariah law in Dearborn, Mich."
Evidence Summary: Tlaib's use of the Koran is not intended to make a religious point, but a legal one. The Texas GOP executive committee has rallied to Shafi's cause, passing a non-discrimination resolution. "Religious freedom is at the core of who we are as a nation and state," Abbott said in a statement this week. "Attacks on Dr. (Shahid) Shafi because of his faith are contrary to this guiding principle," he said. The bid to oust Sharif is led by Dorrie O'Brien, precinct chairman in Grand Prairie.

Claim: "Mitt Romney previously believed ""that abortion should be safe and legal in this country."" Now he is ""prolife."""
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney has shown a willingness to subordinate principle to self-interest. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. So was Romney, as he moved from running for office in liberal Massachusetts to establishing his conservative bona fides with national Republicans. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. The win-at-any-cost approach has marked his entire career, and it is surely the fire behind his attacks on Trump.

Claim: "Two weeks ago, a man entered the worlds busiest airport in Atlanta, Georgia, carrying a loaded AR-15 automatic weapon with an extended-capacity, 100-round magazine."
Evidence Summary: A 14-year-old boy holding an airsoft gun was fatally shot by a Tempe, Arizona, police officer on Tuesday. The U.S. Transportation Security Administration has acknowledged that a passenger bound for Tokyo passed through security in Atlanta with an undetected gun. The passenger was traveling through the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport earlier this month and boarded a Delta flight to Japan, which has strict gun control laws. In the 12 days since this incident, the number of TSA agents who called in sick has steadily increased as the government shutdown carries on.

Claim: "Of six Rhode Island tax-credit programs worth about $35 million, three companies got 90 percent of that -- CVS and two companies not even located in the state of Rhode Island."
Evidence Summary: Democrats are aiming to take control of the state legislature this coming November. Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product. It ranks 26th in income equality, according to the American Community Survey. The debate about the rapid growth of the tech industry and the inequality that often follows has spilled across the country, particularly as Amazon announced plans to build major campuses in Long Island City, Queens, and Arlington, Va. In New York, elected officials and residents have raised concerns that Amazon has not made commitments to support affordable housing.

Claim: "A study by the University of Virginia pulls back the curtain on Medicaids tragically bad outcomes, including increased risk of adjusted mortality."
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration is quietly devising a plan bypassing Congress to give block grants to states for Medicaid. The move would achieve a longstanding conservative dream of reining in spending on the health care safety net for the poor. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify.

Claim: "From 2014 to 2015, Austins murder rate is up a whopping 83 percent."
Evidence Summary: The Brennan Center for Justice estimates the 2018 overall murder rate in the country's 30 biggest cities declined by nearly 6 percent. Despite the general downward trend, some major cities including Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia saw significant increases in murders from last year. In Baltimore, 309 murders were recorded in 2018, down from 342 in 2017. In Houston, murders were also up from 269 in 2017 to 279 in 2018 — still below 2016's 301. In Indianapolis, homicides were for a third consecutive year at an all-time high in 2018 at 159.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton was against setting a deadline for withdrawal, but now she wants a ""precipitous withdrawal"" regardless of ""conditions on the ground"" or ""consequences of a defeat for the United States,"" an RNC radio ad."
Evidence Summary: Pompeo says any contradiction in the administration’s Syria policy has been “made up” by the media. President Donald Trump announced in December that he would be pulling troops from Syria, declaring the Islamic State had been defeated in the country. Now Pompeo and National Security Adviser John Bolton are stating that any withdrawal is "conditions-based," including the enduring defeat of ISIS, protection for America's Kurdish partners, and the assurance that Iran will not increase its influence in the region.

Claim: "In 2009, Yost spent 2.5 times more money than it took to run the (prosecutors) office before he got there."
Evidence Summary: Preckwinkle said her campaign returned the contribution to the donor because it exceeded the $5,600 contribution limit for individual contributions. Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles tallied more than 1,500 convictions for public corruption between 1976 and 2016. Former federal prosecutor Patrick Cotter, a white collar defense attorney in Chicago, said an alarming number of city politicians have been caught committing graft and stealing taxpayer money. Russell said his expenses were under budget on everything that wasn't related to conducting autopsies or toxicology reports.

Claim: "In this bill that Ive just signed, we dont cut anybodys salary. We dont take away their pension. And we dont destroy their health care."
Evidence Summary: "People understand exactly what’s going on," Obama says. "I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments" "We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending," he adds. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway," he says of the debt ceiling issue. "Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt limit" "The government really needs to get together and work this out," Obama adds.

Claim: "The United States is ""seeing greater income inequality now than any time since the 1920s."""
Evidence Summary: Billionaires are adding $2.5 billion in wealth each day, according to Oxfam. Every two days, a millionaire jumps into the ranks of the billionaire class, Oxfam said. The richest 1% captured 27% of new income, while the bottom half of humanity – presently, more than 3 billion people – saw 12% of it. The gulf between the super-rich and the rest of us did not gape wide open overnight. It has been decades in the widening and it was done deliberately.

Claim: "My 7-step plan creates 700,000 jobs in 7 years."
Evidence Summary: Over 100 companies have promised to re-skill a total of over 4.3 million workers. That's a great start but you can make much more of it. Give us that massive infrastructure program you promised. Make a pledge that by 2030, America, not China, will have the world's most modern systems for transportation, communication and energy.“We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.” “You can talk yourself into a recession’

Claim: (U.S. Rep. Jack Kingston) voted to fund (Obamacare).
Evidence Summary: Hatch, now 84, co-sponsored a number of bills with Democrats over the years, often with Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts. In 1997, the two proposed a broad new health safety net for kids — the Children’s Health Insurance Program. Before CHIP was enacted, the number of uninsured children in America was around 10 million. “This is an area the country has made enormous progress on, and it's something we should all feel proud of — and Senator Hatch should too,” said Joan Alker, executive director of Georgetown University's Center for Children and Families.

Claim: "In Ferguson, Mo.,youve got threeblack officers and 50 white officers with a town that is 67 percent African-American."
Evidence Summary: LAPD officers stop African American drivers at a rate more than five times their share of the city’s population, according to a Times analysis. The information analyzed by The Times does not show why an individual officer pulled over a driver. It does not contain information about whether a driver was searched, ticketed or arrested after the stop.“I was saying they have to modernize what they’re doing. I was talking about old-school police union stuff,” McCarthy explained.

Claim: "More than 50 percent of immigrants from (El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras) use at least one major welfare program once they get here."
Evidence Summary: The number of unauthorized immigrants in the United States has been declining steadily since at least 2007. Over the past 10 years, undocumented immigration has increasingly taken the form of visa overstays rather than unlawful border crossings. In 2017, for the first time, the unauthorized population from Mexico constituted less than one-half of all the undocumented people in the U.S. The number of undocumented people coming from Venezuela, which is wracked by political and economic turmoil, increased from 60,000 to 145,000 in 2017.

Claim: "Amniocentesis, does, in fact, result more often than not in this country in abortion."
Evidence Summary: Even Democrats and people claiming to be pro-choice support these restrictions, says Donna Brazile. Brazile: All technology, especially medical technology, always advances and never retreats. The science caught up with what our eyes and hearts told us long ago, she says. Now it’s time for our laws to do the same, Brazile says. The tide has turned so dramatically and the technology will only get more precise, she writes, and there is absolutely nothing pro-abortion organizations can do to stop it.

Claim: The government is going to tell Americans they need to replace functioning stoves in their homes with government-certified stoves and use taxpayer dollars to do so.
Evidence Summary: The U.S. government has announced a new plan to cut air pollution. It will ban the sale of the most polluting fuels and limit the use of wood. Green groups are unhappy at the lack of detail on how to cut pollution. They say the government is not doing enough to tackle the problem of poor air quality in the U.N.'s air space. The U.K. is the only country in the world to have set its own air quality standards. The European Union has set a target to reduce air pollution by 20% by 2030.

Claim: "Iran ""might not be a superpower, but the threat the government of Iran poses is anything but 'tiny,'"" as Obama says."
Evidence Summary: In theory, no Islamic country is better positioned than Iran to play a leading role in the Middle East. But that potential has been stunted because of Iran’s continued meddling in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Lebanon. “I think the best we can hope for is not to get into a war,” he said, setting a low if tragically realistic bar.Perhaps none of this will go well for the mullahs. What if Trump gets re-elected, North Korea has to denuclearize, and Iran's economy and influence continue to ebb? It's not out of the question.

Claim: "GM has ""repaid our government loan, in full, with interest, five years ahead of the original schedule."""
Evidence Summary: GM wants to sell many more electric vehicles and has been lobbying Congress to expand the $7,500 tax credits. It still needs help from regulators to get self-driving cars without steering wheels on U.S. roads. Along with the Cadillac, GM is scheduled to launch at least 20 electric cars worldwide by 2023. CEO Mary Barra reiterated the company’s position that the federal government should extend its $7,.500 electric car tax credit indefinitely in a presentation to investors.

Claim: Of minimum wage workers in Rhode Island only 14 percent serve as sole income earner for their family.
Evidence Summary: Newport, Rhode Island is by far the best educated city in the state. More than half – 50.9 percent – of adult residents completed at least their bachelor's degree. Newport's unemployment rate is just 3.8 percent, the lowest of anywhere in the country. A single parent with two-school age children would need to make nearly $69,427 a year, according to City Harvest’s Self-Sufficiency calculator. That amounts to an hourly wage of just under $33.

Claim: From the Do As I Say Not As I Do department: federal employees owe $3.3 billion in back taxes.
Evidence Summary: $7,527 per worker Department of Transportation $350 million owed to 46,107 workers. $6,737 per worker Peace Corps. $5,895 per worker Airport screeners make $41,000 per year on average, and have missed about $2,700 in wages so far. The employees summoned back from furlough to process tax refunds are paid between $25,800 and $51,000 a year, depending on seniority. The IRS has been urging taxpayers for months to double check how much is being taken from their paychecks.

Claim: "John Boehner has called for repealing the rest of the stimulus, which would raise taxes on 110 million middle class people."
Evidence Summary: Some Republicans insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The uncomfortable truth is that the tax cuts are contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. “We’re not talking about making America great again; we’ve always been good,” said President Bush. "We have to be careful because the American people are very conservative in the sense of not wanting radical change quickly.”

Claim: "Most women, including 98 percent of Catholic women, have used contraception."
Evidence Summary: Co-creators of the pill did try to convince the Catholic church to permit this new contraceptive. They reasoned that the pill makes use of hormones that the body itself produces. The ingredients and the way they prevent pregnancy is arguably as natural as the rhythm method. For 60 years, few in the medical establishment questioned whether the seven-day break was necessary. No one wondered whether women really had to go through the pain, discomfort or even inconvenience of a monthly bleed. Under the new guidelines, people taking the pill are free to reduce or stop this pause, allowing them to skip their monthly bleeds.

Claim: "Since Barack Obama became president of the United States, 95 percent of economic gains have been made by the richest 1 percent."
Evidence Summary: An economy that’s rigged to benefit the richest 1% has left most of America behind. While wages for workers have remained flat for decades, expenses for health care, housing, and most basic needs have risen. As people of color make up a larger share of the diversifying US population, that persistent racial wealth divide is bringing down America's median wealth. But while wealth at the middle falters, it's skyrocketing at the top. The 1% are profiting off ongoing racial economic inequality.

Claim: "Says potential Democratic opponent Mary Burke implemented the policies of Jim Doyle. Those are the policies that, in his last term, saw the state lose more than 133,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: Ald. Ameya Pawar, 47th, in a statement called on Burke to “immediately step down from the Finance Committee and strongly reconsider running for re-election.” Ald. Roderick Sawyer, the Black Caucus chairman whose father was mayor of Chicago in the 1980s, said he was shocked. Three of Burke’s four opponents in the February 26 election — civil engineer Tanya Patino, community college counselor Jose Torrez, and Pilsen law center attorney Jaime Guzman — called on him to resign.

Claim: "You (Hillary Clinton) get a subpoena, and after getting the subpoena you delete 33,000 emails."
Evidence Summary: “I keep coming back to the same word: the facts,” she said. “I don't think we should impeach a president for any political reason, but I don’t think we can ignore any behavior that requires attention and that was all based on the facts.” One of the first moves Democrats will take to try to check the power of the White House and Republicans will be the unveiling of an anti-corruption bill. They want to require presidents to release their taxes – something Trump has refused to do.

Claim: "The United States ranks second worst in income inequality across developed countries, after taxes and transfers."
Evidence Summary: Many of the arguments against taxes on the wealthy are ‘moralistic’ rather than empirical. The argument that taxes on high earners are “slavery’ is incoherent. Tolerating extreme inequality means accepting that it’s not a gross policy failure, not a serious danger to our democratic and meritocratic ideals — but that it's fair and just and natural. For the tippy-top 0.001 percent — the 2,300 richest Americans — incomes have grown by more than 600 percent.

Claim: The studies have shown us that [drug testing for welfare recipients] will be saving us money
Evidence Summary: For Democrats, supporting marijuana legalization is a way to mobilize young and minority voters. For every dollar in revenue generated, marijuana legalization may cost taxpayers $10 in government spending and programs. For all their charges that Republicans are in the pocket of “Big Pharma,” marijuana will become a booming industry that will endear many cannabis workers, investors and users of the drug to the Democratic Party and its candidates. So the next time Democrats start talking about science, tell them that strong and reliable science and research don’t just matter when they fit the Democratic agenda.

Claim: "@realDonaldTrump is coming to San Antonio, which is 60% Mexican-AMERICAN."
Evidence Summary: How Migrants In Reynosa, Mexico Are Reacting To Trump's Speech. President Trump heads to McAllen, Texas, on Thursday as part of his border wall campaign. Across the border is one of Mexico's most dangerous cities that receives many people deported from the U.S. The president may have intended to refer to El Paso, a Texas border city he referenced last week in an almost identical anecdote ― though he is wrong that the wall there had any effect on its crime rate.

Claim: "Georgia has ""a dropout rate thats higher"" than Alabama's."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education. The 4 out of 10 students who start college and don’t finish in at least six years—some never. For the past seven years, the university has monitored its 52,000 students using 800 different academic risk factors, from how well they're doing in algebra to whether they've started to miss class regularly. It also tracks 14 financial indicators, like unpaid student debt.

Claim: "A national study of 2,500 charter schools shows that maybe 20 percent do better than the community public schools, 40 percent or so do worse and the rest are not having any significant difference."
Evidence Summary: Chait: Studies of charter school effectiveness didn’t include charter schools that (for one reason or another) failed or weren't run competently. The 2013 study had the same limitation: It didn't include outcomes from schools that were closed or that didn't keep “adequate” records. At one of the Boston charters Dynarski and Cohodes tout, for example, teachers are supplemented by a “corps” of tutors who are paid so little that Match’s own website points them to how to apply for food stamps.

Claim: "3,000 teachers lost their jobs when (Crist) was governor."
Evidence Summary: The teachers, who have been without a contract for nearly a year, walked off the job on Monday. LAUSD officials have kept all 1,200 of its schools open on a limited basis with skeleton staff of administrators and substitute teachers. The strike drew attention to how California, one of the wealthiest and most liberal states in the country, spends relatively little on its public schools. The state’s chronically constrained school spending is largely attributed to its property tax laws, and especially to Proposition 13, a ballot initiative passed in 1978.

Claim: Barack Obama hasn't passed any (bills).
Evidence Summary: Rep. Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, said the Democratic bills were pointless because Mitch McConnell wouldn't let his colleagues vote on them. The White House has countered that the Democrat-proposed bills are non-starters, because they fail to satisfy the president's demand on border security funding. “The Senate will not waste its time” on any bill that “the president will not sign,” McConnell decreed on Wednesday, according to a spokeswoman for the Senate majority leader.

Claim: "Says Rick Scott cut education by over a billion dollars, meaning thousands of teachers lost their jobs and class sizes went up."
Evidence Summary: Los Angeles teacher Gillian Claycomb says Austin Beutner's approach to education makes him "just as bad as [Education Secretary] Betsy DeVos and [President] Donald Trump" The state of California spends comparatively little on education per pupil. While United Teachers Los Angeles points to $2 billion that the school district keeps in a reserve fund as a way to pay for changes. Many observers say that an agreement between the union and the district will ultimately require more money from Mr. Newsom’s budget.

Claim: "Says Paul Ryan voted for two wars that were unpaid for, voted for the Bush tax cuts that were unpaid for, voted for the prescription drug bill that cost as much as my health care bill -- but wasnt paid for."
Evidence Summary: Even supporters of Paul Ryan, happy about the $5 billion package to fund the wall and avoid the shutdown, note that he did nothing to solve this crisis in his final days as speaker. “It’s too bad he never held a position of power around here,” chirped one disgruntled House Republican who asked not to be identified. There's lots of blame in Washington now. And blame is better to give than receive. And between the capital's debt obsession, the Republican takeover of the House, and a hard right turn in state governments, America was about to embark on a period of cutbacks.

Claim: Its just crazy that the government will ... make it illegal to use the old [incandescent] bulbs.
Evidence Summary: New Democratic majorities in both houses of the New York Legislature are preparing to push the Climate and Community Protection Act. The bill would mandate 100 percent renewable energy across the state by 2050. The new bill would be the first to lay the groundwork for phasing out the plants altogether. Studies show trying to make products more efficient has cut CO2 emissions more than renewable energy has. The difference is that glamorous renewables grab the headlines. The "Cinderella" field of energy efficiency is often ignored or derided.

Claim: "Joe Sestak ... even wants to bring back the death tax, letting the IRS take half of your savings when you die."
Evidence Summary: In Illinois, 76 percent of respondents to a Paul Simon Public Policy Institute poll expressed support for an extra 3-percent tax on income over $1 million. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Omar said. President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes.” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and Mr. Bush wasn’t re-elected.

Claim: "The average CEO makes $10,000 more every day ... than what the average worker makes every year."
Evidence Summary: In the U.S., wages have been essentially stagnant for decades while members of the Davos elite have gotten significantly richer. The fortunes of a dozen 2009 Davos attendees have jumped by a combined $175 billion in the years since, a Bloomberg analysis found. Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan Chase, who has tripled his net worth since 2009, and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, whose wealth grew 1,853 percent in that period, are among those on the list. The average executive to have earned the equivalent of a worker’s average annual salary by 4 January is surely testament to an unimaginable amount of hard work and graft.

Claim: "When Pakistan erupted in crisis, I spoke to Musharraf before Bush did."
Evidence Summary: U.S. Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said on Sunday that he will urge President Donald Trump to meet with the leaders of Pakistan and Afghanistan. Graham spoke at a news conference in Islamabad after meeting with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan. Graham added that the war in Afghanistan "will end through reconciliation" but that no such talks should include the Islamic State group or al-Qaida. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan says his country will host the leaders in Istanbul after Turkey's March local election. Khan told reporters he hoped the meeting would bring "badly needed peace" to Afghanistan.

Claim: "You go down to Miami and when its flooding at high tide on a sunny day, fish are swimming through the middle of the streets."
Evidence Summary: Chicago built a second river, an infernal reflection of the first, tracing its course hundreds of feet below ground. On rainy days, this subterranean passage, a conduit that can hold more than 1 billion gallons of wastewater, welcomes a roaring torrent of shit, piss, and oily runoff from the downtown streets. This megasewer is dynamic enough to create its own wave action if not properly supervised. In 1986, a geyser blasted through a downtown street, lifting a 61-year-old woman’s Pontiac Bonneville into the air like a toy.

Claim: "In Rick Perry's Texas, the governor threatens to leave, to secede from the greatest country in the world."
Evidence Summary: Some here, Thompson included, now refuse to discuss politics in any real depth after the onslaught of coverage. Roberts county, in the heart of America’s Bible belt, has voted Republican with giant margins for decades. No Democrat since Harry Truman in 1948 has even come close to taking this area, which swung red years before the racist politics of the Southern Strategy secured Republican control. But at the midpoint of the Trump presidency, the Texas panhandle goes some way to show the extent of unwavering loyalty among his base.

Claim: "In Florida, Sen. Bill Nelson ... got a $25 billion to $30 billion carve-out for Medicare Advantage patients in their state."
Evidence Summary: One-third of Senate Democrats and more than half of House Democrats have endorsed Medicare-for-all proposals. Such proposals would lead to more government involvement in health care, and bring the U.S. a step closer to mostly socialized systems such as the British National Health Service. Their popularity is driven by frustration with the current private insurance system, which remains costly on the individual market despite ObamaCare’s goals. But Medicare- for-all is estimated to cost tens of trillions of dollars over a decade.

Claim: Says taxpayer resources are being used to facilitate private political agendas through automatic payroll deduction of union dues.
Evidence Summary: In the past, if a taxpayer’s job required certain purchases in order for an employee to perform their job and the employer was unable or unwilling to reimburse the employee, those expenses were tax deductible. This was an “above-the-line” deduction, meaning it could be claimed even if the taxpayer didn’t itemize. “Now the only people who can take this deduction are military service members moving for assignment,” Zimmelman said. The bigger issue here is the law. Public employee legal protections now extend to any form of “discrimination” based on political affiliation.

Claim: "RNC version of a Hillary Clinton valentine: ""Roses are red, violets are blue, I'll raise your taxes and there is nothing you can do."""
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez called GOP strategist Ed Rollins a “walking argument’ for a 100 percent tax on misogyny. Donald Trump tweeted that such attacks on women are apparently the best argument Republicans have in policy debates. The GOP strategist referred to 29-year-old Rep. Tlaib (D-N.Y.) as “the little girl” with a big “mouth,” which triggered a trademark zinger from the congresswoman. The Republican strategist told Fox News: “If you’re going to put her out front with her mouth ... the little girl who wants pre-Reagan economics of 70 percent taxes, the Democratic women are basically going to be damaged”

Claim: "Rob Portman has taken more than $125,000 from Big Oil."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump's former campaign manager says he rigged online polls. Donald Trump says he "had no knowledge" of any effort to manipulate the polls. Microsoft pledges $500 million to address the need for affordable housing in Seattle. "I have the biggest proposal since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington," says Rob Portman, a Republican senator from Ohio. "How many taxpayers saved this company? And then they get this huge tax cut," Portman says.

Claim: "Chicago Public Schools lead the country in high school graduation of an urban school system, match the United States of America in kids graduating high school going on to a four-year college, and are producing eighth-grade leaders in the country in math gains, fourth-grade leaders in reading gains."
Evidence Summary: More CPS students earned AP Capstone Diplomas this past year than in any other school district in the country. White School is 34 percent Hispanic, 29 percent white and 27 percent black. Forty-one percent of the school’s students come from low-income families.“I want to make a change. I want to bring the community into the schools and the schools into the community. Strong schools mean a strong community,” says White School's principal, Michael Iwazeki.

Claim: "The Legislature passed Gov. Walkers so-called property tax relief bill, but the Republicans are still raising your property taxes."
Evidence Summary: Bruce Rauner tried to freeze property taxes. Democrats will raise taxes so high that you’ll be held captive. About 60 drug companies increased prices for 2019. Our drug prices are the highest already. We need new blood in there.” “I think term limit would be a great thing,” says Tennant. “You have some politicians in Washington – on both sides – that’s been in there 30-something years. You need newBlood in there”

Claim: "Says Travis County, home to Austin, is the most liberal county in the United States."
Evidence Summary: 95% of voters backed Donald Trump in Roberts county, Texas, the highest margin of any county in America. Two years later, residents recall the influx of media outsiders with disdain. In the 2018 midterm elections, the Texas panhandle rejected an extreme rightwing insurgency that bore similarity to the brand of Republicanism embodied by the Trump presidency. The region voted overwhelmingly to re-elect state senator Kel Seliger, deemed the most centrist Republican in the Texas state senate. “This was a very conservative and Republican part of the state while Trump was still a Democrat,” Seliger said.

Claim: "Did you know under President Obama family health care premiums have increased $4,154 on the average?"
Evidence Summary: The administration said the proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. The share of Americans without health insurance reached its low point of 11 percent in the third and fourth quarters of 2016. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. The Affordable Care Act, which became law in March 2010, began to expand health coverage in January 2014.

Claim: "Obama ""voted against funding our troops."""
Evidence Summary: "Our troops have done all we have asked them to do and more," then-Sen. Obama once said. "No amount of American soldiers can solve the political differences at the heart of somebody else's civil war, nor settle the grievances in the hearts of the combatants," he added. "Anytime a president does something that people on the ground are rattled by, it usually comes back to bite us," Sen. Lindsey Graham said Wednesday. "When it got to be seen we’re going to withdrawing all of our forces, people went back to their corners," Graham said.

Claim: "In the Paula Jones case, Bill Clinton paid an $850,000 penalty."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump said Saturday he “did not commit a campaign violation” in the run-up to the 2016 election. “Many people currently a part of my opposition, including President Obama & the Dems, have had campaign violations some cases for very large sums of money. They paid a fine & settled,” Trump wrote online. Trump has previously complained of what he views as insufficient media scrutiny over former President Barack Obama’s campaign finance error, tweeting in August: “President Obama had a big campaign finance violation and it was easily settled!”

Claim: "If the United States moves ahead by itself (on cap-and-trade)... after 30 or 40 years, were going to reduce CO2 by less than 1 percent."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. increased its carbon dioxide emissions in 2018, and a large part of the reason was one normally cited as a bonus — substantial economic growth. A booming American economy meant increased industrial production, more truck and air travel and more offices and other workplaces to heat. The result is that — despite expansion of solar and wind power and some movement to alternative-fuel vehicles — the U.s. will have to do even more in the coming years to come close to meeting previous international commitments for greenhouse gas reductions.

Claim: "Says Russ Feingold said that with Obamacare, we could keep our doctors and our plans, it was rated as the Lie of the Year."
Evidence Summary: Survey: 74 percent favor a national government plan like Medicare that is open to anyone, but also would allow people to keep the coverage they have. Republicans have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans. By supporting ACA improvements, they will help expand the number of insured and also lessen the Democrats' political advantage on health care going into 2020. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began.

Claim: "Says Houston is home to more doctors, more nurses, more researchers than any other place in the world."
Evidence Summary: A big reason Houston and its suburbs have been trending blue is because they're so diverse. This cycle, Harris County also saw record numbers of Hispanic-American, Asian-American and LGBT candidates. The more such candidates win, the more it encourages younger people of diverse backgrounds to believe they can do the same. The study elaborates on a previous study by one of the authors but is more comprehensive and therefore more convincing, says Bijou Hunt, an epidemiologist at the Sinai Urban Health Institute in Chicago.

Claim: "Under Maggie Hassans leadership, we increased state spending in the middle of the great recession by 24 percent leading up to and following it."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. Mr Newsom’s agenda is likely to be costly, and thus likely to face obstacles as the new governor prepares to offer a new budget. This is the result of decades of government mismanagement and haphazard tax policy and accumulation of public debt. These are the taxpayers who don’t want to keep getting stuck with the bill for the decisions Democrats in the legislature have advanced.

Claim: "Says Bill White didnt pay taxes while earning $133,600 annual salary as deputy secretary of energy."
Evidence Summary: Nancy Cummings says President Donald Trump is making "a lot of money" from his White House job. The White House says Cummings' claims are "completely baseless" John McAfee says he has not paid taxes for eight years. The IRS is investigating McAfee and four of his campaign workers for unspecified tax crimes, he says.. The president brags of being a billionaire, and for an administration stacked with wealthy Cabinet members, the tone conveyed about languishing government workers is out of touch with everyday Americans.

Claim: "The tax on job creating businesses is 35 percent in the United States, second worst in the entire world."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez suggested funding her proposed “Green New Deal” by the marginal tax rate of 70 percent on those making $10 million or more. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," she said. Most other economists (including many conservative and pro-business experts) agree that a fair and productive society includes some form of progressive tax system, even if they vary in their calculations of what that should be.

Claim: "For every $1 spent on mitigation, $4 in post-storm cleanup and rebuilding is saved."
Evidence Summary: Pew Charitable Trusts report highlighted how poorly disaster spending is tracked. Eight of Fema’s most expensive years have occurred in the past decade. Experts have called for more to be done on the federal level to shore up struggling states. Every $1 spent on hazard mitigation saves the nation $6 in future disaster costs. Yet last year the federal government spent more than $300bn on disaster recovery. The National Flood Insurance Program, on which more than 5 million residents and businesses rely, has been deep in debt.

Claim: "Our tax code is . . . 80,000 pages."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," Miller says. The IRS already had its hands full preparing for all the changes, updating its computer software and writing new paper forms. Miller says there is a lot of other work that isn't, including training in the new tax law for those who answer the IRS help line. "This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for," he says.

Claim: "Blue Cross headquarters has ""a $30,000 granite table."""
Evidence Summary: It is not clear how much Caliburn is paid to operate the facility, but the revenue is not without risk, according to an October 9 SEC filing. "Allegations of impropriety or reports mischaracterizing our activities or criticism of the missions that we are supporting have the potential to cause us reputational harm," the company wrote. Another article detailed how a hospital vice president was given a stake of nearly $1.4 million in a newly public company as compensation for representing Memorial Sloan Kettering.

Claim: "Rigells car dealership made over $400,000 off the Cash for Clunkers bailout."
Evidence Summary: The recordings chronicle the tow operator's process of getting on Portage’s tow list, according to court filings. The confidential source and Cortina each gave Snyder $6,000 by check for his campaign fund and roundtable committee. "Put two girls through college, have a new car, two new cars every year … got a beautiful home. I did everything a rich man does 'cause I was rich. General Motors money," Farcas said. The recordings were made in August 2016.

Claim: "Says the Obama administration is handing out a pamphlet titled, What To Do When The Veteran In Your Classroom Attempts A Mass Shooting"
Evidence Summary: “This Veteran put his life on the line for our country,” Congresswoman Deb Haaland wrote on Twitter. “The students’ display of blatant hate, disrespect, and intolerance is a signal of how common decency has decayed under this administration. Heartbreaking.” “My daughter would have lived if somebody could have just given her one more second,’ said Fred Guttenberg, whose 14-year-old daughter, Jaime, was among the mass shooting victims.

Claim: "It costs about $40,000 a year for a homeless person to be on the streets."
Evidence Summary: The national population of people 65 or older experiencing homelessness is estimated to grow from 40,000 to 106,000 by 2030. The predicted spike is based on 30 years of existing census data. New York spends an average of $25,000 on homeless people age 55 to 59, a figure that rises to more than $28,000 in people aged 70 and up. The researchers said the cities likely could save money, especially in the oldest, sickest group, by helping older homeless people find permanent housing.

Claim: I did not say that I would not have them [Muslims] in my Cabinet.
Evidence Summary: Shahid Shafi, a surgeon and immigrant from Pakistan, sailed into his role as vice chairman of the Tarrant County Republican Party in July, with a sole dissenting vote. Texas Republicans have tried to smother the brush fire lit by Dorrie O’Brien, who cast the single vote against Dr. Shafi. On Thursday the executive committee of the county Republican Party was expected to vote on whether Shafi could keep his new job. The vote is over whether his religion disqualifies him from the post.

Claim: "If I have affordable coverage in my workplace, Im not eligible to go into the marketplace. ... Its illegal."
Evidence Summary: A federal judge in Pennsylvania on Monday blocked the Trump administration from enforcing new rules allowing employers to obtain exemptions from an Obamacare requirement. The changes would allow more employers, including publicly traded companies, to opt out of providing no-cost contraceptive coverage to women by claiming religious objections. California and the other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. The rules were issued by the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Labor and Treasury and were set to take effect on Monday.

Claim: "Says, The Democrats proposed budget is also balanced by using more in new tax revenue than in total PERS reform or savings."
Evidence Summary: Republicans sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth, which in turn produces increasingly higher revenues several years down the road. But be clear about this: I won’t balance the budget on the backs of the starving, the sick and the suffering.

Claim: "Says a lip-reading instructor at the River School, a Washington, D.C., school for the deaf has determined that during 9/11 ceremonies, Michelle Obama said, All this for a damn flag."
Evidence Summary: "The President has taken pride in shutting down government," she said less than an hour before the president's speech. "Now, he must take action to open up government.” She described the experience in a column for Israel Hayom: “When (Trump) clasped America’s highest civilian honor around my neck, I was euphoric with wonderment and gratitude’” "I’m very passionate about fighting for all of us, and the use of that language, you know, was a teachable moment for me," she says.

Claim: "US: Change in Income, 2009-13. Top 1%: +31.4%. Bottom 99%: +0.4%."
Evidence Summary: As people of color make up a larger share of the diversifying US population, that persistent racial wealth divide is bringing down America’s median wealth. In other words, the 1% are profiting off ongoing racial economic inequality. For the highest 0.1 percent of earners, incomes have grown more than 300 percent. And for the tippy-top 0.001 percent — the 2,300 richest Americans — incomes have growing by more than 600 percent. These familiar figures amount to three-and-a-half decades’ worth of wondrous, head-spinning change with zero impact on the average pay of 117 million Americans.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton ""agreed with (John McCain) on voting for the war in Iraq."""
Evidence Summary: In 2016, she alarmed fellow Democrats when she met with Donald Trump during his transition to president and later when she took a secret trip to Syria. She questioned whether he was responsible for a chemical attack on civilians that killed dozens and led the U.S. to attack a Syrian airbase. She said she doesn’t regret the trip and considers it important to meet with adversaries if “you are serious about pursuing peace” She also noted that the 2003 invasion of Iraq was based on faulty intelligence and said she wanted to understand the evidence of the Syria attack.

Claim: "In the past four or five presidential elections, people who poll high at the beginning are not the people who end up being the nominees."
Evidence Summary: "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner" "I think in this country right now, that there are a lot of people who don't feel like front-runners. And I'm going to go speak to them in this campaign" "The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done" "If we are going to maintain a two-party system, the mandate needs to be a clear one"

Claim: "Under President Barack Obama, the United States has doubled our exports."
Evidence Summary: The Labor Department published a jobs report for December that soared past expectations. Trump is correct about China’s economy, which by several measures appears to be hobbled by American tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese imports. The more the US president fulminates about China selling the US far more than it buys, the more it seems to go against him. Domestically, the economy is projected to have grown at post-recession high of 3.1 percent in 2018, generating high marks for economic optimism.

Claim: "A ban on earmarks greatly weakens the authority Congress has over spending, to the benefit of the executive branch."
Evidence Summary: The Court is likely to look carefully at whether Congress is granting too much authority to administrative agencies. The Constitution vests all legislative power in Congress, and that means there is a point – never well-delineated by the Court – when the discretionary authority granted to an agency is so great that it amounts to an unconstitutional delegation of legislative authority. If the Court simply follows these principles, it will set in place guidelines for the judiciary that will take it, over time, out of politics and place political responsibility where it belongs – in Congress.

Claim: "On the economic troubles of 2008, ""really the match that lit this fire was Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac."""
Evidence Summary: The debt markets are undergoing a healthy and much-needed correction that is slowly eliminating a decade of reckless euphoria. The key question now is whether a bubble in a different corner of the debt market could trigger a market panic. “A quote wrongly attributed to Mark Twain fits here: history rarely repeats, but it does rhyme,” said Rasheed Saleuddin, a research associate at the University of Cambridge’s Judge Business School. He added that there was a chance that “small changes in default rates in the loans or even in expectations of same could cause a meltdown”

Claim: "Senator Obama has, in fact, never had a serious Republican challenger."
Evidence Summary: Obama has been a vocal critic of his successor, but actively campaigned for Democrats in last year’s midterms. While the party he once presided over is divided on most everything, they are united in their reverence to Obama. Should he throw his support behind a candidate down the road, he could be the only prayer the party has of a semblance of unity."The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," Obama said.

Claim: "Here in Wisconsin, weve put in previous budgets more money into mental health services than any governor has in the last 25 years."
Evidence Summary: Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor. Some are already speculating that Newsom may be the most progressive governor in state history. Illinois has a $7.4 billion pile of unpaid bills. Rebuilding roads and bridges will cost money. The city must think much, much bigger than six clinics. First, we must stop politicizing mental health. We must stop treating those living with mental illness as punching bags. This council and the next mayor need to make mental health a priority.

Claim: "For every extra year that a girl stays in secondary school, her chance of getting infected with HIV/AIDS decreases by half."
Evidence Summary: “If the problem is concentrated in a relatively small set of people, then thinking about the interventions that would be most effective for those people is going to take us a lot farther,” he says. “Older women have become perpetrators of these early child marriages. A woman is not complete without marriage, they say.” “Vaccination is an essential strategy to combat the devastating impact of yellow fever virus which killed tens of thousands of people during recent outbreaks in Africa”

Claim: "In Washington, Congressman Joe Heck supports privatizing (Social Security), turning our savings over to Wall Street and risking it on the stock market."
Evidence Summary: Silver: It's easy to see the shutdown as another symptom of Trump’s instability and hatred of Mexican immigrants – and it is. The lack of alarm from his Republican peers is revelatory of another disturbing truth: the rightwing, anti-government forces which first took root in the GOP more than 40 years ago are now in full bloom. Republican party leaders have long talked about slashing the size of government, reducing the social safety net, and privatizing whatever they can. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence.

Claim: This is not a joke: the president wants to house illegal aliens on our nations military installations.
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump has threatened to use the military to build a border wall. Peter Bergen: This plan is not only outlandish—it’s also illegal. He says there is no reasonable argument that families and children seeking asylum constitute an emergency that demands a military response.Bergen: It conveys a message to the American people that the military is not there for them, it”s there for him.gen: There is an ongoing national emergency, but as we saw last night, the phone call is coming from inside the house. It's clearly a precursor to the president trying to end-run Congress.

Claim: "In the United States alone we lose more than 3,000 people a day to cancer."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. cancer death rate has hit a milestone: It’s been falling for at least 25 years, according to a new report. Lower smoking rates are translating into fewer deaths. Advances in early detection and treatment also are having a positive impact, experts say. The society predicts there will be more than 1.7 million new cancer cases, and more than 600,000 cancer deaths, in the U.s. this year. The good news is also the reminder that we are not completely helpless in the face of cancer.

Claim: Regulations are an endemic weakness in government -- so old that Thomas Jefferson listed this problem among his charges against the King of England in the Declaration of Independence.
Evidence Summary: The report says the UK has a corrosive political and regulatory culture that appeases business interests. It is the establishment's efforts to block those policies that truly undermine democratic norms and represent a threat to our Constitutional republic and the rule of law, says Hilton. The U.S. needs a way to address what Alexander Hamilton called “the abuse or violation of some public trust” and James Madison called the “incapacity, negligence or perfidy” of a president.

Claim: "Gov. Chris Christie caused a 4.1 percent increase in property taxes in 2010, marking the highest increase since 2007."
Evidence Summary: Bruce Rauner tried to freeze property taxes. Democrats will raise taxes so high that you’ll be held captive, he says. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has proposed an increase of 30 cents per gallon to one of the nation’s highest gas taxes. Our drug prices are the highest already, he writes, and they’re only going to get higher in the coming years. He says Democrats’ master plan would be to raise taxes high enough that people won’t be able to sell their houses.

Claim: "Unemployment numbers are artificial numbers. These are numbers that are massaged to make the existing economy look good, to make this administration look good when, in fact, its a total disaster."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. The anti-Trump economic “experts” continue to warn that a recession is just around the corner, even as they begrudgingly acknowledge the latest figures.

Claim: "According to the state of Florida, you are almost twice as likely to be attacked by an alligator than by someone who happens to carry a conceal-and-carry permit."
Evidence Summary: Last week, a 25-year-old woman was standing at a bus stop before dawn in Chicago. She was approached by a teen who attempted to rob her with a gun. Instead, the woman, a concealed carry permit holder, pulled out her own gun and shot and killed the teen. It is extremely rare for a legal gun owner to use a gun successfully in self-defense, authors say. They say states that passed right-to-carry laws experienced 13 to 15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates.

Claim: "The five states that outlaw collective bargaining for teachers all rank below 44th in the nation in test scores, while Wisconsin ranks 2nd."
Evidence Summary: The 33,000-strong L.A. teachers’ union went on strike Monday as the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) slouches toward insolvency due to unaffordable. Though not all their demands were met, teachers won major gains and changed the national conversation about the reasons for public education’s crisis. Most of these actions erupted in Republican-dominated regions with relatively weak labor unions, bans on public sector strikes, and electorates that voted for Donald Trump in 2016. But blue states are hardly immune to low pay, underfunded schools and frustrated teachers.

Claim: "If youre one of the more than 250 million Americans who already have health insurance, you will keep your health insurance."
Evidence Summary: About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The U.S. is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage, and healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world.

Claim: "The vast, overwhelming majority of [crimes that occur with a firearm] are committed by people who dont legally possess that firearm in the first place."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik’s commentary distorted a few facts, Yvonne Smith says. It is true firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, she says. But 60 percent of those were suicides, she writes. Smith: Criminal minds care less about the law than the man in the moon. But when prosecutors plea-bargain and judges slap wrists, you wind up with articles like Ms. Vinik's, which misrepresent the facts and the real problem, she adds.

Claim: "Over 80 percent of the people want the shot to vote on whether to approve same-sex marriage, according to polls."
Evidence Summary: The survey also found that if the Supreme Court revisits the landmark Roe v. Wade decision, 49 percent of Americans support upholding abortion restrictions legislated by the states. Just 30 percent of respondents favored a Supreme Court ruling allowing unrestricted abortion. "The majority of the American people deserve to have their opinions heard," Knights of Columbus Supreme Knight Carl Anderson said in a statement. The poll's release coincided with Friday's 46th annual March for Life in D.C., which took place in Washington.

Claim: You might be surprised to know that 137 billion gallons flows (into Lake Erie) every day. You might be surprised to know that only 86.3 billion gallons flow out. ... Leaving us a net surplus of approximately 50 billion gallons a day.
Evidence Summary: The NSW government has put water lost to evaporation from Menindee Lakes at 106GL a year. But McCrabb and others say the likely savings are much lower. This is because the inflows are calculated according to an old depth gauge and volumes extrapolated. This does not allow for silting in the lakes since the last serious study was nearly two decades ago. This, he says, means the inflow is likely overstated. But despite this, the MDBA waved the project through the first stage making it very difficult to reverse course.

Claim: "From 2010-2014, median household income in Wisconsin has actually gone up 7.4 percent."
Evidence Summary: Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal had expected a 0.2% gain for December. At an average 10%, it’s pretty much in line with the historic rate since 1998. The proportion of the population in the labor force has risen sharply since 2012, by more than...But she said she thinks any such trend will be gradual. "I am hoping it's going to change," she said. "But is it going tochange right away? Incomes fall short"

Claim: "San Antonio has seen 67% growth in water customers in the last 25 years, 0% more water used."
Evidence Summary: With 195,000 employees, the federal government is the city's largest water customer. Chicago’s multibillion-dollar anti-flooding system is already struggling to keep up with the region's larger and more frequent storms. At least 65 percent of the public water supply in the Western U.S. comes from fire-prone areas. "She still doesn't trust the water yet," said Serene Buhrz, whose family still relies on bottled water for water.

Claim: "Despite what Donald Trump claims, there werent 15,000 people who turned out in Phoenix to see Trump speak."
Evidence Summary: President Trump will address the American people Tuesday night. He is expected to make his case that there's a crisis at the Southern border. But he often uses misleading statistics as part of his argument. The Trump administration has invited sharp criticism this week for its numerous misleading claims about what is happening on the U.S. border with Mexico to justify the proposed wall. The White House press secretary claimed in a Sunday interview on “Fox News Sunday” that 4,000 “known or suspected terrorists” had come into the United States illegally.

Claim: Abortion services are well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does.
Evidence Summary: If Roe v. Wade is eventually overturned, states will decide whether abortion will be legal. Abortion opponents don't want Planned Parenthood to get federal funds because, in many states, it functions as an abortion provider. Republicans have a slightly larger majority in the new Senate, but that majority will still be well short of the 60 votes needed to block any Democratic filibuster. Because Democrats generally support Planned Parenthood, the power shift in the House makes the chances for defunding the organization even slimmer. The Trump administration is still pursuing an aggressive anti-abortion agenda.

Claim: North Carolina spent almost as much as it spends on government rape crisis programs in a year to convene a special session for HB2.
Evidence Summary: North Carolina has been taking steps to eliminate its rape kit backlog. In October, the state received a $2 million grant from the Department of Justice. The money will be used to outsource rape kit testing to private labs. Netflix has scrapped plans to film a new series, “OBX,” in North Carolina over the state’s anti-LGBTQ law. The bill, signed by former Gov. Pat McCrory in March 2016, prohibited transgender people from using restrooms that align with their gender identities.

Claim: "[U]nlike every other major transit system in the nation, MARTA has never received any significant, dedicated funding from the state of Georgia."
Evidence Summary: “I will expect to see the Fulton Street Transit Center fully funded, complete and at a scale that at least resembles what was repeatedly promised,” Silver wrote in 2008. The price for fixing that one station hit $1.4 billion, more than the entire annual budget of the Chicago transit system at the time. The partial federal government shutdown during a Washington, D.C., budget battle could affect Northwest Indiana bus services if it goes on much longer, the head of the region's transportation planning agency says.

Claim: "At $587 apiece, USA would need to bring home about 33.1 BILLION gold medals to pay off our national debt."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump repeated his false claim that a tweaked North American Free Trade Agreement is effectively making that country pay. “We will be making billions and billions of dollars a year more money. And that is paying for the wall. Many, many times over,” Trump said in another rambling, hourlong news conference filled with such falsehoods. The total cost would be $535 million if each of the 535 members of Congress received such a bonus."This is money that is set to be spent anyway," Trump said.

Claim: "The Georgia Department of Economic Development assisted with the creation of 28,776 jobs, an increase of 29 percent from last fiscal year, and $5.97 billion in investments, a 32 percent increase."
Evidence Summary: Health care and education services added 82,000 jobs in December, the biggest jump since February 2012. Restaurants and drinking placed posted a net gain of 40,700 jobs. Builders added 38,000 construction jobs, while manufacturers increased their payrolls by 32,000 workers. The just-ended year saw 2.4 million new jobs created. "It really was a banner year," said Martha Gimbel, director of economic research at the Indeed Hiring Lab, pointing to the effects of the tax cuts.

Claim: Accidents are down 50 percent and injury accidents are down 60 percent in the rebuilt Marquette Interchange in Milwaukee.
Evidence Summary: It's wrong to keep a route alive when daily ridership amounts to a handful of passengers. The money saved by those cuts can be channeled into Pace routes that show promise, such as the agency’s on-the-shoulder expressway service. On I-55, Pace express service ridership has risen from 400 riders every day in 2011 to 3,000 now. Pace also has seen strong growth on its I-90 routes. There have been 57 accidents at the location in the last 12 years.

Claim: "Says $57,000 is the mean [income] in our state for a family."
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households has declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. A single parent with two-school age children would need to make nearly $69,427 a year, according to City Harvest’s Self-Sufficiency calculator. That amounts to an hourly wage of just under $33. A dollar goes further in Hailey than in much of the rest of the country. Goods and services are about 4 percent less expensive in Winnetka than they are nationwide.

Claim: "Says the one person (Donald Trump)has suggested that would make a good justice is his sister, who is a court of appeals judge appointed by Bill Clinton. She is a hardcore pro-abortion liberal judge."
Evidence Summary: Republicans have already confirmed 30 circuit judges, 53 district judges and two Supreme Court justices. That’s more than any other president has seen confirmed by this point in his first term. But beyond the sheer numbers, there's an alarming theme in the caliber of Trump's court picks. Many are young and ideological with records of attacking abortion rights, LGBTQ rights and voting rights. "We all deserve judges who can be fair and impartial," said Sharon McGowan, legal director and chief strategy officer at Lambda Legal.

Claim: "Today in America, we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth."
Evidence Summary: We have a government that is heedless of its obligation to protect our freedoms. We have mass killings of defenseless innocents. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly.”~Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr in “Letter from a Birmingham Jail’#MLKDaypic.twitter.com/eE15ScI8im — Dr. Dena Grayson (@DrDenaGrayson) January 21, 2019

Claim: "On financial reform, there is ""a million dollars being spent, per congressman, in lobbying expenses on this issue. (The) industry has four lobbyists per member of the House and Senate working on this."""
Evidence Summary: Lobbying, consulting and corporate-funded think tank industries boomed over the past three decades as Congress gutted itself. Corporations spend more money on lobbying in Washington than Congress spends total. Stagnant pay and fewer options for advancement, combined with student loan debt and the high cost of living in Washington, pull staffers into the private sector. Instead of jobs, health care or border security, the incoming Democrat majority in the House is making a so-called “reform” package their first legislative priority.

Claim: "Elena Kagan ""violated the law of the United States at various points"" with her opposition to military recruiters."
Evidence Summary: The Justice Department went to the Supreme Court in November to urge that the justices take up the issue. The justices refused the administration’s request for them to decide the merits of the legal fight. Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan dissented. The policy, announced on Twitter by President Trump and refined by the defense secretary at the time, Jim Mattis, generally prohibits people identifying with a gender different from their biological sex from military service.

Claim: "Sixty million Americans depend on Social Security, and one-third of all the seniors in America depend on Social Security for 90 percent of their income."
Evidence Summary: Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, called social security a “Ponzi scheme” It has long been the dream of movement conservatives to bring to the knees a federal government. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence, with healthcare, a pension and paid time off. It's crucial that we tackle this issue head on, says Teresa Ghilarducci, professor of economics and retirement.

Claim: "Says Milwaukee County spent over $170,000 in salaries in 2010 for employees to participate in union activities such as collective bargaining."
Evidence Summary: The next mayor of Chicago will be tasked with negotiating and signing a new contract with the Chicago Teachers Union. The relative strength of public-sector unions has helped prop up organized labor as a whole in recent years. But those unions suffered a major setback at the Supreme Court in June, when the justices ruled that government workers can’t be required to pay fees to the unions that represent them. Labor groups now face fierce anti-union campaigns from corporations and must fend off legislative efforts to weaken unions in states around the country.

Claim: "The U.S. has 5 percent of the worlds population, 25 percent of the worlds known prison population."
Evidence Summary: More whites use drugs in the USA, but more than half of the people in state prisons on drug offenses are people of color. The lifetime likelihood that an individual born in 2001 will end up in prison also varies greatly by race. Since 9/11, the federal government prosecuted about 400 jihadists. At least 61 individuals with terrorism-related convictions will be released from prison between 2018 and 2024, according to a December report. In 2010, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence estimated about 20 percent of former Guantanamo Bay detainees returned to the battlefield.

Claim: We were promised. The president said we would keep unemployment under 8.5 percent (if the stimulus passed).
Evidence Summary: The unemployment rate rose to 3.9%, but only because more people entered the workforce. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. Even wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains, and African-Americans, whose jobless rate has reached record lows.

Claim: "George Allen voted to add $3 trillion to the federal debt, voted to raise the debt ceiling four times and voted for the No Child Left Behind Act while he was a senator."
Evidence Summary: ‘I will serve the remainder of this term as your senator, fighting for Kansas in these troubled times,’ Roberts said. ‘I like sparring with the press. I like attacking my opponents.’ ‘We’re going to take care of everybody. I don’t care if it costs me votes or not.” ‘The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done’

Claim: "Says John Raese said he wants 1,000 laser systems put in the sky, and we need it right now."
Evidence Summary: The Pentagon is nowhere near actually building such a weapon. At best, it will take years, maybe decades, to develop such devices. “Laser weapons offer warfighters opportunities for quick and precise target engagement, flexibility and lighter and more responsive support logistics,” an AFRL spokeswoman told Warrior Maven. The service anticipates having aircraft and fighter jet-fired lasers in operation as soon as the early 2020s, as mobile power systems and other integral technologies continue to evolve rapidly.

Claim: "The Islamic State, or ISIS, was cast off by al-Qaida because it was considered too extreme."
Evidence Summary: ISIS has more than 20 to 30 times the fighters it had the last time it was left for dead. Many of its leaders have been killed, but the group’s caliph, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and several of his top deputies, are believed to be alive. Pompeo said the previous administration "grossly underestimated the tenacity and the viciousness of radical Islamism," which he said allowed ISIS to grow in Syria and Iraq. But Pompeo used the speech to try to counter criticism that the U.S. decision to withdraw its 2,200 troops from Syria could lead to an ISIS resurgence.

Claim: "The Foundation for Government Accountability, which supported a Florida law requiring drug testing of welfare recipients, is a Koch brothers affiliated group."
Evidence Summary: The Food and Drug Administration is accusing Juul and Altria of reneging on promises they made to the government to keep e-cigarettes away from minors. The Kochs pay for politicians in order to enrich themselves and to gut regulations affecting the polluting industries that made them billionaires. The progressive billionaires — Oprah Winfrey, Warren Buffett — are a different breed of fat cat. Last year, Tom Steyer spent more than $100 million of his own money helping Democrats get elected, and he says he will drop another bundle on Senate races in 2020.

Claim: "The Senate immigration bill is filled with things like rewards for au pair agencies, Alaskan seafood processors and Vegas casinos."
Evidence Summary: The bill includes $12.7 billion in aid for victims of last year’s hurricanes, wildfires and other natural disasters. One part of the bill that is already drawing criticism from immigration groups would change how minors from Central America seek asylum. The proposal would require them to apply for asylum in their home country instead of at the southwest border, as many have done in recent years. The number who could apply would be limited to 50,000 a year, and only 15,000 could be approved every year.

Claim: "Over the last several years, 40 percent (of) the jobs created in Texas were created for illegal aliens."
Evidence Summary: President Trump tweeted that 21 percent of federal prison inmates are immigrants. The real figure is 39 percent, according to a study by the Center for Migration Studies. The study also finds that the undocumented population from Mexico fell by almost 400,000 people in 2017 and that since 2010 the number of undocumented from that country fell by 1.3 million. The president has also pointed to Texas, citing -- mostly accurately -- numbers from the Department of Safety. But native-born Americans were the only group over-represented among those convicted of homicide in Texas.

Claim: "For every one mile of light-rail track that will be built, 16 miles of new road capacity will be built."
Evidence Summary: "We are investing millions of pounds to build the best railway Scotland has ever had" But when it comes to how to get that money, things get complicated fast. "We are the nation’s supply chain hub and we must be built like it" "It is not just concrete and steel. It's a longer commute home. It is a longer journey to and from work" "We need to get rid of the idea that the only way to get to work is to take a train"

Claim: "Under a new law regulating abortions, Even if youre raped, if you dont report it in the first 30 days, the Republicans will force you to have an ultrasound."
Evidence Summary: New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms contended the act would repeal legal protections for a fetus after 20 weeks. The group said it "believes that the right of every born-alive infant to receive medical care is an issue that all political parties and all sides of the abortion debate should be able to agree upon" Republicans stressed that concern Tuesday, holding a news conference at the Capitol with Livia Abreu, an Army veteran from the Bronx who lost her baby in a domestic-violence attack last year.

Claim: "In my attorney generals office, weve cut the budget 18 percent."
Evidence Summary: ‘This is literally what government is for. We need a federal law.’ ‘We need a law to stop the federal government from shutting down,’ he said. ‘It’s why we’ve been meeting for two weeks. It’ s why we met with the vice president yesterday. It is why I’m here today.” ‘I don’t want to reduce it to the size where I can put it in the bathtub. I want to make it bigger,” he said of the government. “I want it to be bigger than it is’

Claim: "In North Carolina, now were near the national average for unemployment."
Evidence Summary: An average of 220,000 jobs were added each month last year, the best performance since 2015. The overall unemployment rate is below 4 percent, at a record low for Hispanics and near a low for African-Americans. Across metropolitan areas, the percentage of jobs that don't require a bachelor's degree that are good or promising ranges from 35 percent in Spokane, Washington, to 9 percent in Washington, D.C. "While it’s great to see the official unemployment rate at 3.9 percent, this figure doesn’t tell the full story," said Marie Trzupek Lynch, chief executive officer at Skills for Chicagoland’'s Future.

Claim: "Mitt Romney wants ""to set a date for withdrawal"" from Iraq."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney said he looks forward to building a "trusting relationship" with President Trump. Romney criticized the White House's foreign policy agenda, in particular, the president's plans to withdraw troops from Syria and Afghanistan. The 2012 Republican presidential nominee accused Mr. Trump of not rising "to the mantle of the office" Romney defended his decision to write the op-ed, which his niece and chairwoman of the Republican National Committee Ronna McDaniel denounced as "disappointing and counterproductive"

Claim: "Says under Wisconsin law, he cannot remove his name from the ballot for re-election to Congress."
Evidence Summary: U.S. District Judge James Peterson said the changes to Wisconsin’s voting law violated a 2016 court order blocking the state from making similar changes. In 2016 he blocked a Wisconsin law that restricted early voting to two weeks before an election on weekdays from 8 a.m to 7 p.m. The judge also struck down a law that requires a 2-year expiration date on student IDs used for identification at the polls. Critics said Wisconsin Republicans passed the voting restrictions because they were stung after losing all five statewide races this fall.

Claim: "In fighting collective bargaining changes, Democrats are trying to protect a system that pays unionized government workers 42 percent more than non-union workers."
Evidence Summary: Public-sector unions have helped prop up organized labor as a whole in recent years. But those unions suffered a major setback at the Supreme Court in June. The justices ruled that government workers can’t be required to pay fees to the unions that represent them. There’s no way to measure how the effect of that decision is reflected in the government data, if at all. The shutdown is fraying some labor unions that are typically united on matters that affect their personal bottom lines.

Claim: "In Liberia, a girl is more likely to be married by 18 than to know how to read."
Evidence Summary: One in every three girls in Zimbabwe is married before the age of 18, the legal age of consent. In some communities, girls as young as 16 are deemed too old, so they need to get married. Poverty plays a role in these child marriages, according to campaign organisation Girls Not Brides. Efforts to reduce teen pregnancies will fail unless gender-based violence and poverty are addressed, added Gitonga.“When girls are left behind, half the population is left behind.”

Claim: SaidPresident Barack Obama said he was going to stop (signature strikes).
Evidence Summary: Trump dropped that particular term during his meeting with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. A strike is a work stoppage initiated by workers, but in this case, some 380,000 federal employees are furloughed and another 420,000 are working without pay. Federal law provides that federal employees who participate in a strike against the government are barred indefinitely from government employment. Two large unions representing federal workers -- the American Federation of Government Employees and the National Treasury Employees Union -- have argued it is illegal to force workers to show up to their jobs.

Claim: "In 2008, candidate Barack Obama attacked John McCain for proposing cuts to Medicare."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all” these days.

Claim: "Says the United States has treaties with apparently 69 countries where we are obligated to defend their borders. And these were treaties that were executive treaties, not authorized by Congress."
Evidence Summary: The president “needs to create a sense of crisis to justify this costly boondoggle,” Sykes added. “Are we really seriously now talking about the military coming in and enforcing eminent domain? Does the Republican Party really want to preside over soldiers taking away Americans’ private property?” Trump said during his comments that said the nation is “under siege” by immigrants attempting to cross the border. ‘We have a country that’s being invaded by criminals and drugs,’ he said. The president insisted that his threat to declare a national emergency — and build a border wall without support from Congress or the majority of Americans — would be the “easy way out”

Claim: "Says under his utility rate plan, An estimated 50 percent of our residential households will see a decrease in their water and wastewater bills."
Evidence Summary: NIPSCO’s electric rates were adjusted downward in April 2018, to reflect federal income tax reductions the utility received under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The OUCC reported several parties have intervened in opposing the increase including East Chicago, Valparaiso, Highland, Schererville, Munster, Dyer, Griffith and Winfield. Also intervening are the Sierra Club, the Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana, the Indiana Coal Council, Peabody Coalsales, Wal-Mart, and Accurate Castings.

Claim: "Weeks after accepting a quarter-million-dollar campaign contribution from a hospital board chairman, Greg Abbott went to court against victims of a drug-taking neurosurgeon."
Evidence Summary: The patient dropped out of treatment for a year and became pregnant. Being pregnant qualified her for Medicaid again and she returned to treatment. If she had been able to stay on Medicaid in the first place, she wouldn’t have gotten pregnant. “Tackling the opioid epidemic takes gubernatorial leadership,” she said. Last week federal prosecutors charged Chicago Ald. Edward Burke, 14th, with attempted extortion. They alleged that Burke obstructed a construction project while pressuring a restaurant owner to hire Burke's law firm to do tax work.

Claim: "We have a fire marshal that said, Oh we cant allow more people ... And the reason they wont let them in is because they dont know what the hell theyre doing."
Evidence Summary: "It shouldn't just end with a call to the local police, who say they can't do anything," he says. L.A. County had about seven engines staging near the Boeing gate when the county’s first strike team arrived. The firefighters discussed how, because of a limited number of hydrants at the Boeing facility, they had to use trucks to keep shuttling water to each other. “We’re still coming up with a game plan,” a fire leader responded.

Claim: "If youre from Guatemala and you are found illegally in Mexico, you are automatically jailed."
Evidence Summary: The latest caravan of Honduran migrants hoping to reach the U.S. has crossed peacefully into Guatemala. In October thousands of migrants crossed a bridge over the Suchiate River and then crashed through a gate into Mexico. Mexico's new president, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, said his country would guarantee the protection of human rights for migrants who enter Mexico. Human rights groups warn that Mexico, one of the most violent countries in the world, is not safe for asylum seeker. Last month two Honduran teenagers who had traveled with the caravan were murdered in Tijuana.

Claim: Says Texas has the 15th largest economy in the world.
Evidence Summary: Only Florida came close to matching Texas, with the Sunshine State adding more than 322,000 people. Texas’ growth spurt actually came at a slower rate than those in previous years, the Austin American-Statesman reported. The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each.

Claim: "When Congress voted to condemn Iran for sentencing a Christian pastor to death, (U.S. Rep. Lois) Capps was the only member who voted no."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Ilhan Omar, D-Minnesota, was appointed to the House Foreign Relations Committee on Wednesday. Omar has a history of anti-Israel comments. "Anti-Semitism has no place in Congress," House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said. "She knows zero about me. To the extent that it matters, I'm not gay," Omar told CNN on Thursday. The 116th Congress is the most diverse in history, with Muslim women, Native American women and an openly bisexual senator. But Congress is once again without a single member who openly identifies as atheist.

Claim: "As mayor, every year I was in office I did reduce taxes."
Evidence Summary: Mayor Bill de Blasio will deliver his sixth State of the City speech on Thursday. He casts himself as an aspiring Robin Hood, aiming to take from the rich and give to the poor. “Brothers and sisters, there’s plenty of money in this city,” his prepared speech reads. � “It”s just in the wrong hands!” The speech will be delivered at Symphony Space on the Upper West Side at 11 a.m. in New York.

Claim: "John McCain ""is proposing tax cuts that would give the average Fortune 500 CEO an additional $700,000 in tax cuts."""
Evidence Summary: In 2017, President Trump reduced tax rates for individuals and corporations, a decrease that favors the rich and businesses. Romney spent the bulk of his business career at a firm called Bain Capital. The top rate for the rich in developed countries plunged from 62 percent in 1970 to 38 percent in 2013. Women supported the proposal by 62-38 percent and men favored it by 55-45 percent, according to the Hill. Southerners back the concept by a 57 to 43 percent margin and 45 percent of Republican voters also viewed it positively.

Claim: All travelers -- even babies -- arriving in the U.S. by air must have a passport.
Evidence Summary: Thousands of Chinese, Russians, and others travel to the United States to have babies just for the U.S. passport. "People die to come to America," said Naila Amin, a dual citizen from Pakistan who grew up in New York City. "I was a passport to him. They all wanted him here, and that was the way to do it," she said. The babies are not allowed to stay overnight though. Unlike the units in Europe, there's no nursery here.

Claim: "Right now we are spending at an all-time high, close to 25 percent of our GDP [is] being spent on the federal government. But our revenues are at an almost all-time low of about 15 percent [of GDP]."
Evidence Summary: Federal spending outpaced revenue by $317 billion over the first three months of the fiscal year, the budget office reported. That was 41 percent higher than the same period a year ago, or 17 percent after factoring in payment shifts that made the fiscal 2018 first-quarter deficit appear smaller than it actually was. Total federal revenues in 2018 came in roughly where the Tax Foundation, a Washington think tank that typically projects large growth boosts from tax cuts, had forecast. The widening deficit comes despite a booming economy and a low unemployment rate that would typically help fill the government's coffers.

Claim: "Earlier this year, the head of the Congressional Budget Office testified before Congress that implementation of Obamacare would cost 800,000 jobs."
Evidence Summary: The original estimate that the partial shutdown would subtract 0.1 percentage point from growth every two weeks has now been doubled. The administration had initially counted just the impact from the 800,000 federal workers not receiving their paychecks. A study released in July by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University said Ocasio-Cortez's proposed 'Medicare for all' solution would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years, and require historic tax increases.

Claim: "According to a recent poll, there are more young Republicans enrolled in their parents (health insurance) plans than young Democrats."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Americans’ political and social views do not tend to drift to the right as they age. 75 percent – including 64 percent of Republicans – favor allowing people who aren’t covered by their employer to buy insurance through their state’s Medicaid program. The Economist reports that baby boomers — those born between 1946 and 1964 — who have been the United States’ largest age cohort for more than five decades will be outnumbered by millennials.

Claim: "[Tailpipe emissions rules], if fully implemented with all the regulations that go with it, they will keep the temperature from rising nearly five one-hundredths of a degree Fahrenheit. By 2050."
Evidence Summary: U.S. emissions of carbon dioxide in the United States shot up in 2018, even though a near-record number of coal plants closed during the year. Extra oil and gas heating during a relatively cold winter and spiking emissions from factories, planes and trucks help explain the jump. Calls for action may be increasingly urgent, but the partial government shutdown has put the brakes on some of the science that helps track phenomena like climate change. If governments and private industries wait until 2030 to start phasing out fossil-fuel emitters, there will only be a 50 percent chance that the world will be able to keep the average temperature increase to 2.7 degrees F.

Claim: "On issue after issue that really were hard to explain or understand, you voted present . . . And anytime anyone raises that, there's always some kind of explanation."
Evidence Summary: “I think there is a way to do it. It is so easy to do. I want to repeat again: the six bills that we want to pass until September 30th and then leave the one bill where there are questions for 30 days to discuss options. That’s the way it should happen.” “I don't understand what the security question will be and what gets thrown in there. I think this is more of a political issue.’ “You just have to understand: You have to ask for votes”

Claim: "Federal law for Obamacare navigators does not bar or even require screening for convicted felons, including individuals convicted of identity theft or fraud."
Evidence Summary: Criminal record declarations do little to predict the risk of someone re-offending. But they often lead to applicants with previous convictions being dismissed out of hand for no good reason. Dr Beth Weaver of Strathclyde University said it would be better for employers to ask about convictions at a later stage in the recruitment process. Her findings have been published in a paper for the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice, and have been welcomed by supporters of the "ban the box" campaign.

Claim: [T]his breed (of pit bulls) is most often associated with aggressive behavior.
Evidence Summary: Many of the surviving dogs had landed at Bully Life because of behavioral issues. Other shelters and rescue organizations were nonetheless taking them in. An online fundraiser meant to support Mercado and his work with troubled dogs had raised more than $56,000 as of Tuesday night. Haskal admits that she sees the difficult cases, and that there are plenty of adorable, happy Romanian rescue dogs, but she would warn against such adoption for first-time owners. “You know nothing of their backgrounds. They’ve probably been wandering the streets, abandoned. And this could be their first dog,” she says.

Claim: It was Dan Sullivan who wrote a bill to cut Alaskans out of those decisions about where they can hunt and fish.
Evidence Summary: Alaska's population directly impacts how many congressional seats and Electoral College votes the state receives. Some of the boats are still missing federal permits and inspections needed before they can leave the docks. The federal government tightly regulates the cod and other fisheries in the Bering Sea. The National Marine Fisheries Service certifies scales that are used to weigh fish. It also trains and trains independent observers who ride along on boats to collect data on fish being caught. The whole agency is short-staffed because of the shutdown.

Claim: "A school uniform policy helps with school safety, helps with truancy."
Evidence Summary: The panel answered questions on an assortment of related topics, including why school security protocols remain confidential. After the Parkland shooting, President Donald Trump empaneled a federal commission on school safety. In late December, it issued a report stressing the need for the federal government to help local school districts address their respective discipline issues. Some advocates said that Harris’ policy got the issue backwards: student truancy was not a problem of bad or neglectful parents, but a symptom of broader problems within the school systems.

Claim: "Says constitutional amendment would help to stop unfair, double taxation on real estate."
Evidence Summary: Ilya Somin: No one person, whether Democrat or Republican, can be trusted with such sweeping power. He says the case is bad karma for the already tainted property tax appeals industry. Somin says the most urgent alert goes to candidates for mayor of Chicago and aldermen of its wards. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he says. "We could slash village government by one-third and only impact taxes by about 5 percent"

Claim: "John McCain accused Barack Obama ""of letting infants die."""
Evidence Summary: Ben Shapiro: "The argument, I guess here, is that would you kill baby Hitler?” Biden praised Michigan Republican Rep. Fred Upton as “one of the finest guys I’ve ever worked with,” for his work on a bill providing cancer research funding. Biden’s praise for Upton puts him at odds with some in the Democratic Party hoping to win the Midwest battlegound -- especially since Biden did not endorse Upton’S Democratic opponent. Biden was paid $200,000 for the speech.

Claim: "The latest unemployment numbers have shown that nearly 315,000 Americans have simply given up hope when it comes to finding a job."
Evidence Summary: Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. Even wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains, and African-Americans, whose jobless rate has reached record lows. “2018 was a banner year for the labor market,” said Julia Pollak, a labor economist at the online employment market site ZipRecruiter.

Claim: "Says Obama wants to redesign the American flag ""to better offer our enemies hope and love."""
Evidence Summary: "We have made America great again," Gus Klein said Saturday afternoon to the crowd of about 75 people who turned out to watch the ceremony in Burlington's New North End neighborhood. The replacement flag, the couple said, was mailed to them along with a "heartfelt letter" by the Trump family. There were a number of flags, t-shirts, campaign buttons and even a hat signed by President Trump and Vice President Mike Pence. It took a while, but Klein has finally recieved his new flag, and he plans to pass it down for generations to come.

Claim: Recently we have seen our government debt grow by $3.4 trillion during the first 29 months of the Obama administration -- the equivalent of about $4 billion per day.
Evidence Summary: Fitch warns that uncertainty created by the 2 1/2-week shutdown could lead to doubts about whether lawmakers will be able to agree on raising the debt ceiling. With a total debt of nearly $22 trillion and rising, the government's borrowing limit must be periodically raised by Congress. The next time is in March, although the Treasury could extend that deadline by taking "extraordinary measures" (juggling its books) The overall November figure represented a 6.7 percent increase on a seasonally adjusted basis following a 7.6 percent rise in October.

Claim: "Clinton has ""raised the most money from Washington lobbyists ... from the health industry, drug companies, health insurance companies (and) the defense industry."""
Evidence Summary: The lobbying, consulting and corporate-funded think tank industries boomed over the past three decades as Congress gutted itself. Corporations spend more money on lobbying in Washington than Congress spends total, according to a study by New America fellow Lee Drutman. “The reason why the lobbyists are powerful is because Congress is weak,” Daniel Schuman, policy director at Demand Progress, a progressive nonprofit, said. Stagnant pay and fewer options for advancement, combined with student loan debt and the high cost of living in Washington, pull staffers into the private sector.

Claim: "If all of the [Bush-era] tax cuts expire on schedule, the budget will be close to being balanced in four years."
Evidence Summary: As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. Total federal revenues in 2018 came in roughly where the Tax Foundation, a Washington think tank, had forecast — which is to say, well below the budget office’s baseline. Just because the new law helped to increase economic growth, “it doesn’t mean that it is going to pay for itself,” an economist said.

Claim: "From 05 to 09, weve had 1,100 soldiers commit suicide, one every 36 hours."
Evidence Summary: On July 14, 2012, drowning in grief and guilt, I tried to kill myself. Like so many veterans, I had found civilian life desperately difficult. War had drained me of joy. And so, thinking there were no other options of escape, I turned to suicide. I avoided becoming one of the 20 veterans who kill themselves every day in this country. The Union Veterans Council, on behalf of its federal employee members on Monday, issued a rebuke to Wilkie. “AFGE Local President Canales’ attempt to use Veterans as pawns in a political debate while exploiting the serious issue of Veteran suicide is nothing short of disgraceful,” Wilkie wrote.

Claim: "Murder went up when Romney was governor. ""Robbery went up. Violent crimes went up."""
Evidence Summary: For instance, violent crime rose in California in 2012 and between 2015 and 2017, allowing opponents of the laws to point to increases. Activists see parallels in the strategies of opponents of more lenient sentencing laws in California and the rhetoric on crime at the national level. The former attorney general, Jeff Sessions, early last year warned about a “staggering increase in homicides.” Violent crime had ticked up in 2015 and 2016 after a long decline, but when F.B.I. statistics for 2017 were released — after Mr. Sessions’s warning — they showed that violent crime had gone down again.

Claim: "All 28 members of NATO have pledged to spend at least 2 percent of their economy on defense. But only three countries do -- Britain, Greece and us."
Evidence Summary: NATO was founded in 1949 and has 29 members. All have agreed to spend 2 percent of their gross domestic product on defense by 2024. The U.S. spends 3.6 percent of its GDP on defense. According to NATO, just five European countries spend as much as 2 percent, and Germany spends just 1.2 percent. If our allies were obliged to provide for their own defense without us, they could easily afford to do so. But a long-standing and valuable relationship should be ended only for defensible motives, under a rational plan.

Claim: "Under Scott Walker, Wisconsin moved from 16th to third in percentage of people with student loan debt."
Evidence Summary: For the fifth straight year, the state lost more residents than it gained. This is not a blip or an outlier or the impact of a recession that ended 10 years ago. It is the result of decades of government mismanagement and haphazard tax policy and accumulation of public debt. These are the taxpayers who don’t want to keep getting stuck with the bill for the decisions Democrats in the legislature have advanced. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power.

Claim: "Says we have put more boots on the U.S.-Mexico border than at any time in our history, and illegal crossings are down by nearly 80 percent from their peak in 2000."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump has repeatedly called the situation at the southern border with Mexico a crisis. He insists that building his long-promised border wall will fix it. The numbers appear to be correct, albeit cherry-picked. They also require context: Traffic dropped 92 percent there over 23 years amid a border-wide trend of fewer border crossings. The president “needs to create a sense of crisis to justify this costly boondoggle,” said former RNC Chairman Tom Steyer. “We can’t have people pouring into our country like they have over the last 10 years.”

Claim: "In Wisconsin, unions can essentially give unlimited contributions to political parties, but business cant give any."
Evidence Summary: Newly inaugurated Gov. Carter has been a vocal opponent of the incentive package used to lure one of Amazon’s new headquarters to Crystal City, Va. Since the Pendleton Act of 1883, U.S. federal workers have been protected from the political patronage systems familiar under President Andrew Jackson. The larger question in the wake of the 2018 elections is whether the forces that propelled Democrats into the majority in the House are powerful and persistent enough to force a shift from the rightward direction of policymaking.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton says she wants to, raise taxes on the middle class."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., defended her call for a 70 percent tax rate on the rich. She emphasized that the highest tax rate wouldn’t be on all income but would affect the “10 millionth and one dollar” and beyond. The wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda that could become a reality after 2020.

Claim: "When one person sneezes, it goes all the way through the aircraft."
Evidence Summary: On Jan. 15, 2009, the crew of US Airways Flight 1549 experienced a never-in-a-lifetime event. Just 98 seconds after takeoff, some Canada geese found their way into the airplane’s two engines. The crew managed to identify the problem, decide what to do about it, and execute what a former NTSB member called “the most successful ditching in aviation history.” How did the crew begin this historic performance? By uttering the same two words that most everyone comes up with in a moment of crisis: "Oh shit"

Claim: "Republicans actually doctored emails between administration officials about Benghazi. Then, they released them to the press, trying to pass them off as real."
Evidence Summary: Buzzfeed News published a report claiming President Trump told Michael Cohen to lie to Congress about a potential real-estate deal in Moscow. The article prompted Democrats to call for Trump's impeachment if it turned out to be true. But Mueller issued his first public statement in more than a year to repudiate the BuzzFeed report just one day later, asserting in a brief statement that BuzzFeed's story was "not accurate" "There are no texts and emails or other documents to corroborate BuzzFeed's claim for the simple reason that it is not true," Giuliani said.

Claim: "Gov. Lawton Chiles said ""if I were to become ... become speaker of the House it would be (his) worst nightmare."""
Evidence Summary: Nancy Pelosi is the only woman to have ever served as House speaker. She is expected to be re-elected to the post in one of the first orders of business for the new Congress. She pledged, in prepared remarks, that this Congress "will be transparent, bipartisan and unifying" Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., chairman of the House Democratic caucus, gave a rousing speech to put Pelosi’s name in nomination to be Speaker.

Claim: "If [Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed] wants to be like Bull Connor, then so be it."
Evidence Summary: Zach Fitzgerald, the first African-American police chief in Fort Worth, is Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh's pick to clean up the department. Fitzgerald was scheduled to have a confirmation hearing before the Baltimore City Council this week, but it was postponed due to a family emergency. The NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund issued a statement calling for the city to withdraw Fitzgerald's nomination. Brian Kemp, who is set to be inaugurated Georgia’s next governor on Monday, faces the challenge of running a state with an increasingly stark urban-rural divide.

Claim: "The governors not taking his own fiscal advice. ... In the first fiscal quarter of this year, weve seen a 13.5 percent increase in spending, double-digit spending out of the executive branch in the State of Texas."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. The departing governor inherited a $28 billion deficit and left Mr. newsom a $14 billion surplus. This is not a blip or an outlier or the impact of a recession that ended 10 years ago. These are the taxpayers who don’t want to keep getting stuck with the bill for the decisions Democrats in the legislature have advanced.“The governor prevents the engine from getting out of control. Well, that is what the governor has to do in state government.”

Claim: "Following the 2009 session, Texas House Speaker Joe Straus was acknowledged and thanked for his tireless efforts by Planned Parenthood, the nations premier abortion provider."
Evidence Summary: Planned Parenthood's State Executive Director of Iowa said the law was Reynolds' "egregious attempt to ban safe, legal abortions in Iowa" The Senate action was clearly aimed not just at House Democrats’ boast that they would vote to overturn existing abortion restrictions, but also at the annual anti-abortion “March for Life” held in Washington on Friday. “I welcome all of the marchers with gratitude,” said McConnell in his brief remarks on the bill, noting that they “will speak with one voice on behalf of those who cannot speak for themselves”

Claim: "If the Sellwood Bridge is not replaced, it will have to be shut down within eight years."
Evidence Summary: "We need to make sure everybody gets the alert before the next big earthquake strikes," he says. Railways, roads, bridges and fresh water arteries are on the verge of collapse. Deteriorating rail systems mean goods and services take longer to deliver and cost more. We are the nation’s supply chain hub and we must be built like it, he adds. "I will continue to do what I can until the day we can no longer do it and then I’ll simply have the doors closed,” says the MP.

Claim: "Says Jim Renacci ran against the Washington establishment in the election, but is now hypocritically embracing it with big money, special interest fundraisers."
Evidence Summary: Elizabeth Warren spoke at McCoy's, a bowling alley bar in Washington, D.C., on Friday. The senator stuck to a populist tone upon taking the stage, telling her audience that problems both at home and abroad in America “intersect in a Washington that is working for the wealthy and well-connected” The echoes go beyond the big picture. Look at what Warren said about Washington’s corruption when she spoke in Iowa last week. It is about money in politics, it's about the influence of money.

Claim: "In 1950, corporations paid $3 in taxes for every $1 by a worker. Today, they pay 22 cents for every $1 by a worker."
Evidence Summary: During most of the 1950s, when the U.S. economy dominated the world, the top rate was 91%. It kicked in at $400,000 of taxable income, or roughly $3.7 million in today’s dollars. In 1980, a fifth-grader whose allowance was less than $44 a week would have owed no tax at all on the 10-spot grammy paid for doing chores. And he or she would have had to have a weekly stipend of more than $2,000 a week before the 70 percent rate kicked in.

Claim: "In the last four years, our economy has grown on average 0.9 percent a year."
Evidence Summary: Gross domestic product increased 3.4 percent in the third quarter of 2018, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Hassett said he is not concerned about the potential economic impact because, he predicted, the economy would bounce back once the government reopens. The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended, so it’s overdue for a stumble. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch.

Claim: "Says that President Obama said, Nobody made these guys go to war. ... Now they whine about bearing the costs of their choice?"
Evidence Summary: President Obama once said it was in the national interest to send more troops to Afghanistan. Now he says that's not the right way to go. The U.S. should be focusing on winning the war on terror, not winning the political war, he says. The war on terrorism has killed more than 2.5 million people since 2001, according to the U.N. It is estimated to have cost more than $1.5 trillion in lost economic output since 2001. The United States has lost more than 700,000 jobs since 2001 because of the war.

Claim: "Just a little over 60 percent of your electric bill, my electric bill, 60 percent of that is pass-throughs, whether they be for building of nuclear plants or whatever they may be. A planned nuclear plant repair will only increase that percentage."
Evidence Summary: "People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck ... agree 100 percent with what I’m doing," Obama says. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he adds. "This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors. Those obligations don't go away if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling."

Claim: What the District of Columbia was trying to do(with its handgun ban) was to protect toddlers from guns.
Evidence Summary: Washington joins a handful of other states that ban anyone under 21 from buying a semi-automatic assault rifle. A federal judge struck down the law last year, saying it violated gun store owners' First Amendment rights. The ballot initiative seeks to curb gun violence by toughening background checks for people buying assault rifles, increasing the age limit to buy those firearms and requiring the safe storage of all guns. Only the age-limit portion of the measure goes into effect on Jan. 1; the rest becomes law on July 1.

Claim: "An Obamacare slush fund paid to spay and neuter dogs and cats, then counted it as an anti-obesity campaign."
Evidence Summary: The Pelosi-backed principle, Ocasio-Cortez charged in a Twitter post Wednesday, was a "dark political maneuver designed to hamstring progress on healthcare" and other legislation. A study released in July by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University said the plan would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years. For Perez-Escamilla, studies like this just reiterate how the U.S. continues to ignore the severity of its obesity crisis. But he warned that the current political environment did not bode well for progress.

Claim: Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants.
Evidence Summary: In California, an Air Force veteran was raped, murdered, and beaten to death with a hammer by an illegal alien with a long criminal history. In Maryland, MS-13 gang members who arrived in the United States as unaccompanied minors were arrested and charged last year after viciously stabbing and beating a 16-year-old girl. How many more people in our country must be tragically killed by illegal immigrants before politicians on Capitol Hill finally take action? Federal workers and contractors affected by the partial government shutdown should be made whole and receive their back pay after this problem is solved.

Claim: "There is currently no ability to vet these people, referring to Syrian refugees."
Evidence Summary: The president has misrepresented the people seeking admission to our country. He doesn't want to reverse course since doing so would help expose the malicious way in which he is leading the country. At the same time, the left needs to confront the dimensions of the issue. The numbers of people from around the world who have good cause to seek protection here are far beyond what the country can absorb. Some reasonable method of deciding who can enter and what to do with those who cannot must be implemented.

Claim: "Says during George W. Bushs administration we were losing millions of jobs per month, while under Barack Obama we have three years of gaining hundreds of thousands of jobs per month."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump’s capitalist economic policies are reducing income disparity for working-class Americans, says Andy Pazder. He says it highlights the positive impact of economic growth as well as the negative impact of government policies that, ironically, attempt to help workers by hurting their employers. Trump is off to a great start, but he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’ says Pzder. The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended.

Claim: "Under the administration of Gov. Scott Walker, northern Wisconsins mining economy is moving forward and more people are getting good, high-paying jobs."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector. Manufacturing is also expanding, adding 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide. "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate.

Claim: We got [the Quonset Business Park] for free and were getting zero dollars out of it into the state coffers other than the fact that it produces the jobs.
Evidence Summary: Chicago, along with most U.S. cities and urban counties, faces an impending infrastructure investment meltdown. Promising plans are put aside because of fiscal constraints, and even the most necessary repairs lack funding. It doesn't have to be this way. All governments own a vast number of public assets that could be used better in order to generate an income. It’s time to unlock the value of public commercial assets as a core urban strategy and use it for the public good, the International Monetary Fund says.

Claim: "Georgia has the 9th highest rate of adults, ages 18 to 64, without a high school diploma or GED."
Evidence Summary: The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960. Georgia State’s six-year graduation rate in 2018 was 55 percent, up from 48 percent in 2011 before the program rolled out. The university has monitored its 52,000 students using 800 different academic risk factors, from how well they're doing in algebra to whether they've started to miss class regularly. The goal is to catch students before they reach a crisis point and provide advising and instructional help to get them through it.

Claim: "We've lost over 5,000 Americans over there in Afghanistan, in Iraq, and plus the civilians killed."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Trump ridiculed other nations’ commitment of troops to fight alongside America’s in Afghanistan. "I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers," he said. "How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?" he asked. "Our fight against terrorism is ongoing and we will remain vigilant and committed to its destruction," Mr. Trump said at the White House in Washington, D.C., on Monday.

Claim: "Since President Obama took office, over 88,000 Ohio workers have lost their jobs."
Evidence Summary: The monthly jobs report, prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, did show gains in the healthcare sector, which added 50,000 jobs last month and 346,000 for the year. But it’s presumably a less welcome development for those who get paid to prognosticate about the economy. No matter how spectacularly or repeatedly the data proves the pessimists wrong – and missing the mark by 113,000 is pretty spectacular – the anti-Trump economic “experts” continue to warn that a recession is just around the corner.

Claim: "There have been seven investigations (of Benghazi) led mostly by Republicans in the Congress that concluded nobody did anything wrong, but there were changes we could make."
Evidence Summary: “Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right?” Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) admitted in 2015. “But we put together a Benghazi special committee, a select committee. What are her numbers today?’ “The committee disbanded one month after Clinton lost the election.” “Republicans just need to stay together, and I believe that will happen,” said Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-D.C). “I'm gonna do is I'm gonna try to work with the Republicans as I have in the past”

Claim: "Taxpayers pay $18,000 a month for House Speaker Nancy Pelosis district office in downtown San Francisco."
Evidence Summary: Nancy Pelosi denounced what she called a "let them eat cake" attitude from the commerce secretary. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wants to tax the richest Americans at a rate of 70 percent on their income above $10 million. "The idea that it's 'paycheck or zero' is not a really valid idea," said Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. "I’m six days into the term, and you already used all your ammo. So enjoy being exhausted for the next two years while we run train on the progressive agenda”

Claim: "Sherrod Brown opposed blocking a new EPA emissions rule, despite acknowledging that the EPAs cap-and-trade regulations are burdensome and could harm economic growth in Ohio."
Evidence Summary: Wheeler's predecessor, Pruitt, frequently questioned climate science but ultimately resigned. Republicans defended Wheeler, saying he had been unfairly vilified for his industry experience. Wheeler has said the report was based on the “worst-case scenario”, although the analysis considered what might happen if emissions slow down or continue to grow. But what else should we expect from a former coal industry lobbyist? Andrew Wheeler has demonstrated over and over again why he should not be entrusted with protecting us from harm, Moms Clean Air Force says.

Claim: "(President Barack Obama gave) half a billion in taxpayer money to help his friends at Solyndra, a business the White House knew was on the path to bankruptcy."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump ran for president telling a story of business prowess. Two years later, the longest government shutdown on record is revealing gaping cracks in his facade. The Obama administration never claimed that every high-risk investment would pay out, and a slew of investigations never uncovered anything untoward about the Solyndra deal. The president just used the backdrop of the Oval Office to manufacture a crisis, stoke fear, and divert attention from the turmoil in his Administration. There is no challenge so great that our nation cannot rise to meet it.

Claim: "If we went back to the obesity rates that existed in 1980, that would save the Medicare system a trillion dollars."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. continues to ignore the severity of its obesity crisis, says one expert. But he warns that the current political environment does not bode well for progress. “Our work is framed around changes to policy and changes to the environment,” says a Michigan health official. The author of a book on fat in the UK says the book displayed obvious sophistry. But she says his policies would feed and house the poor and heal the sick by putting an end to the cruel austerity.

Claim: "Im the only candidate in the Democratic primary, or actually on either side, who Wall Street financiers and hedge fund managers are actually running ads against."
Evidence Summary: In some respects, the Democratic primary landscape appeared inviting for a candidate like Mr. Steyer. He has been one of the Democratic Party’s most prolific donors over the last few elections, eclipsed in 2018 only by Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor who is considering a presidential campaign of his own. Among the potential explanations for this: It might not be a good idea to convey to primary voters that you have a lot in common with Donald Trump. The financial-services industry ruined the economy in 2008 and has been hoarding an increasingly appalling and unsustainable amount of wealth.

Claim: "Jimmy Langevin is having a fundraiser . . . to retire the debt from his campaign for secretary of state, which was 12 years ago."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand: "I think you do need to get money out of politics" Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Brown. Brown inherited a $28 billion deficit and left Newsom a $14 billion surplus. Newsom also created an $18 billion so-called rainy day fund to help the state get through what is widely viewed as an inevitable coming recession. He chose to dip into his retirement savings to help them pay bills and float until he goes back to work.

Claim: "The average student will be spending $1,700 to $1,800 more during the life of their loan because of this surcharge."
Evidence Summary: Only a quarter of college freshman and 38 percent of all undergraduates pay the full sticker price for their education. Students are more likely to pay full price at public colleges, Ivy League schools and the most selective colleges. Those who borrow are charged about 6.3% in interest, more than four times the government’s borrowing rate of 1.5%. The IF said those who borrow face having 9% of income over £25,000 a year deducted from their wages for the next 30 years.

Claim: "In Afghanistan, it is very, very rare that someone who is killed in action is not killed by an improvised explosive device, or IED."
Evidence Summary: The number of civilian casualties from airstrikes almost doubled, from 238 in 2017 to 463 last year. The report attributed the increase – which the organisation said was probably underestimated – to the US conducting a greater number of strikes aimed at the increased military presence. The findings follow a UN report last year that warned the killing and maiming of civilians in Afghanistan, mainly by IEDs, had reached “extreme levels’. In October, the UN assistance mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) expressed “serious concern” over a record number of deliberate and indiscriminate attacks on civilians by anti-government elements.

Claim: "The Obama administration is proposing to mine another 10 billion tons of Wyoming coal, which would unleash three times more carbon pollution than Obamas Clean Power Plan would even save through 2030."
Evidence Summary: Harvard study finds new EPA policy would increase greenhouse gas emissions in much of the US. Carbon dioxide emissions would be 8.7% higher in 18 states and Washington DC by 2030, compared with having no policy at all. The study comes ahead of a congressional hearing on Wednesday to confirm Andrew Wheeler as the US Environmental Protection Agency administrator. Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist and an architect of the new Trump emissions policy, has been acting EPA administrator since his predecessor, Scott Pruitt, departed last July. The report calls on federal and state lawmakers to cut off $20 billion in subsidies fossil fuels receive each year.

Claim: "Over $1 trillion was spent on anti-poverty programs in 2011, enough to give every single poor American a check for $22,000."
Evidence Summary: The Public Good or Private Wealth? report, published Sunday, found that the wealth of billionaires has increased by $900 billion in the last year, or $2.5 billion a day. This bonanza has not been felt by the poorest half of the world, which saw its wealth decline by 11 percent. Since the 2008 financial crisis, the number of millionaires has doubled, according to the report. At the same time, 3.4 billion people are living in poverty on less than $5.50 a day, and women are often hardest hit.

Claim: "Under a new federal regulation, it will cost Pinellas County $31 million to fix a single ditch."
Evidence Summary: St. Louis, which has the fourth-largest sewer system in the country, is under a consent decree to commit $4.7 billion to ending its overflows through deep tunnels. If Chicago built a bathtub, Philadelphia is trying to transform itself into a sponge with park space, street trees, and permeable pavement. The city is spending $2.4 billion to implement the nation’s largest green infrastructure plan, an experiment that positions it as the anti-Chicago. The South Florida water management agency's website says the 240,000 acre-feet reservoir is necessary to ease pressure on Lake Okeechobee.

Claim: Says Gov. Scott Walker is openly backing a move to abolish the state retirement system and convert it to a 401(k)-style plan that will reduce pensions by at least a third for current and retired public employees
Evidence Summary: The once-rising Republican star who made his name kneecapping public sector unions as governor of Wisconsin leaves office in defeat Monday. He was narrowly beaten by Democrat Tony Evers, the state education superintendent who marched with teachers in protest of Walker's policies. Walker said that in the days since the loss, his most fervent supporters have approached him, some in tears, concerned about what he's going through. His conduct and that of those like him laid the groundwork for the modern Republican Party led by Donald Trump.

Claim: "Many of the 9/11 conspirators came from the Muslim Brotherhood, including Osama bin Laden, Ayman Zawahiri and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed."
Evidence Summary: "Remember: It was here, here in this very city, another American stood before you," Pompeo told an invited audience of Egyptian officials, foreign diplomats and students. "He told you that radical Islamist terrorism does not stem from ideology. He told you 9/11 led my country to abandon its ideals, particularly in the Middle East. The results of these misjudgements have been dire." But over its 90 years, members have committed violence. In 2013, El-Sisi outlawed the Brothers as terrorists. But President Trump hasn't designated them a terrorist organization.

Claim: "The latest evidence of Republican success is that since the beginning of the current legislative term, state unemployment has gone down almost 20% to 5% adjusted."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon.

Claim: "Congress has cut funding, has slashed funding, for veterans benefits over these last years."
Evidence Summary: The agencies affected by the shutdown employ at least 150,000 veterans, according to the White House Office of Management and Budget. "People are struggling and they're facing very real financial challenges," said Randy Reese, executive director of Disabled American Veterans. Calls from veterans to resolve the federal funding lapse follow a public clash between VA Secretary Robert Wilkie and union leaders representing veteran government employees. The VFW announced Tuesday that the organization has donated more than $45,000 to help Coast Guard families pay for mortgages, utilities and food.

Claim: "John McCain's health care plan ""leaves you on your own to pay McCains health insurance tax."""
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014.. While a majority (56%) supported single-payer coverage (akin to the UK’s NHS], called Medicare-for-all, large majorities on both sides supported “buy-ins” to existing government- run health plans.

Claim: "I delivered a flat tax for my state. I took my state to No. 1 in job creation. With all due respect to what Rick Perry has said about Texas, we did a little bit better."
Evidence Summary: Rauner pointed to some small-bore achievements during his farewell appearance Thursday before the Tribune Editorial Board. But he didn't come close to backing up his parting boast, “I’ll put our track record of accomplishment up against any governor in the U.S. in the last four years.” Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature.

Claim: "Part of his ride was to warn the British that were already there that, Hey, youre not going to succeed."
Evidence Summary: He had believed in his own destiny since at least the age of 16, when he told a friend that he would save Britain from a foreign invasion. His lifelong admiration of Napoleon and his own ancestor, John Church- ill, 1st Duke of Marlborough, coloured his belief that he too was a man of destiny. “In the end, it might not succeed. But the right thing to do is try.” “I could not be reproached either for making the war or with want of preparation for it. I thought I knew a good deal about it all, and I was sure I should not fail.’

Claim: "Governing magazine has estimated that in the states that dont expand Medicaid, a minimum, they said of 40 percent of rural hospitals will close in those states..."
Evidence Summary: The VA is preparing to shift billions of dollars from government-run hospitals to private health care providers. The Trump administration is drawing up guidelines on what could be a major overhaul of Medicaid in some states. The administration wants to let states use waivers to reshape their Medicaid programs, but the effort could face legal challenges in the courts. Capping spending could mean fewer low-income people getting covered, or state-designated cutbacks in health benefits — although proponents of block grants argue that states would be able to spend the money smarter with fewer federal strings attached.

Claim: "In a sweetheart deal members of Congress, thanks to the Obama administration, are going to be the only people in America to get subsidies in the Obamacare exchanges."
Evidence Summary: Andy Slavitt: Proposed rule changes would lead to modest premium increase next year. He says it could give Democrats a new presidential-year health care issue. Slavitt says the proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula. The Trump administration can build on these accomplishments, he says, by implementing more policies."If people don't see Congress willing to make it better and more affordable, they have shown they are happy to elect members who will," he says. "The time for political posturing is over"

Claim: "Sen. Robert Bennett, R-Utah, cast votes for TARP, the stimulus, and an individual mandate for health care."
Evidence Summary: Health care continues to be a top issue for Americans. People are happy to elect members of Congress who will make it better and more affordable. We can argue until the cows come home about taxes, immigration and everything else. But there are some values and practices that should transcend our partisan squabbles. And we all need to rally to their defense, no matter how we vote on election day.. Andy Slavitt, a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors, is a former health care industry executive. Follow him on Twitter: @ASlavitt.

Claim: "Under Republican Governor Chris Christie, tolls cost more. Train and bus rides cost more. College tuition goes up. But Christie protected a tax cut for millionaires."
Evidence Summary: Illinoisans in 2018, like Americans in 1980, saw a state in decline under four dreary years of the Rauner administration. Pritzker, like his predecessor, never held public office until his November victory. He also faces a slew of fiscal problems and the nagging issue of Illinoisans fleeing the Prairie State. Such delusions are particularly prevalent in red states, which contribute the least in federal revenues and rely most heavily on federal services. But they also pervade the generally fortunate people without realizing they are receiving government largess.

Claim: "Some 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost up to 70 percent of their pensions as a result of political favoritism and backroom deals."
Evidence Summary: More than half a billion pounds of council workers’ pension money has been directly invested by local councils in arms companies implicated in Saudi Arabia’s military campaign in Yemen. Council pension funds have sizeable shareholdings in BAE Systems, Airbus, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and Northrop Grumman. Between them, 43 council pension funds directly hold shares worth £566m in the five companies. Labour MP Lloyd Russell-Moyle says some council employees would be furious to learn how their retirement income was being funded.

Claim: "Sharron Angle supported ""a Scientology plan to give massages to prisoners."""
Evidence Summary: As a senator, Harris introduced bipartisan legislation to reform the money bail system. As attorney general, Harris spent years defending malpractices in California’s troubled and overcrowded prison system. In 2015, Harris’ office fought to stop a Michelle-Lael Norsworthy, a trans woman, from getting reassignment surgery. As a prosecutor, she also created a intervention program to give job training to low-level drug offenders. She brought up one of the first gay weddings in California to show her support of LGBT rights.

Claim: "During eight years under Ronald Reagan, African-American median income rose by about $5,000."
Evidence Summary: Since 1983, median wealth for all US households declined by 3%, adjusting for inflation. Over this same period, the median Black family saw their wealth drop by more than half. Meanwhile, the number of households with $10m or more skyrocketed by 856%. If the trajectory of the past three decades continues, by 2050 the median white family will have $174,000 of wealth, while Latino wealth will be just $8,600 – and Black median wealth will head downward to $600.

Claim: "After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas."
Evidence Summary: Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who resigned Jan. 2 under a cloud of ethics scandals, told the National Petroleum Council last month that the administration’s “regulatory philosophy” is to partner with the fossil fuel sector. Zinke said the U.S. has “lead the charge” in cutting emissions of CO2 and methane, a potent greenhouse gas. “We are reducing our CO2 emissions faster than most other developed countries. We have our own plan. We’re addressing the issue.”

Claim: "As the CEO of HP, Carly Fiorina laid off 30,000 workers."
Evidence Summary: The partial government shutdown is in its third week, and hundreds of thousands of federal employees may be missing another paycheck. The Treasury department furloughed roughly 72,400 workers. That is nearly three times the number of people who work at Facebook. Are you feeling the impact of the government shutdown? Are you having problems getting your tax questions answered by the IRS? "The hardest part is the demoralizing of our employment," she said. "Playing around with our jobs like they're a political game"

Claim: "91 percent of Latinos support the DREAM Act, which allows undocumented youth to attend college, but Marco Rubio opposes it."
Evidence Summary: The president has succeeded too well in convincing Republicans of the rightness of his position. Nearly 90 percent of self-identified Republicans say there is a crisis at the border. Only 24 percent of Republicans oppose the shutdown-for-wall formula that Trump has written. Republicans are also the only demographic subset that believes illegal immigrants are more likely to commit other crimes. The president has repeatedly tried to pin the blame on Democrats, accusing them of failing to close "loopholes" in the law.

Claim: Bill McCollum on the Arizona immigration law.
Evidence Summary: "We are walking a fine line," says Tara McCollum Plese, chief external affairs officer at the Arizona Alliance for Community Health Centers. "Until there is confirmation this indeed is going to be the policy, we don't want to add to the angst and the concern," she says. If immigrants do come to a clinic asking whether using Medicaid now might affect their legal status down the road, trained staff members are ready to answer their questions, she adds. "This is a refuge first and foremost and it must be treated as such," says Rep. Betty McCollums.

Claim: "Eighty-five percent of Floridians who will benefit from expanding Medicaid are single, childless adults."
Evidence Summary: The uninsured rate among U.S. adults has reached its highest level in roughly four years. Gallup found that 13.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. The Trump administration is quietly devising a plan bypassing Congress to give block grants to states for Medicaid, achieving a conservative dream of reining in spending on the health care safety net for the poor.

Claim: "Saystheres 400,000 anchor babies born in the United States a year, which areindividuals coming to our country and having their children so their children can be U.S. citizens."
Evidence Summary: Crossings by families with children, as well as unaccompanied children, have increased by 12,275 in October 2017 to 35,841 in November 2018. The administration is currently working out a deal with Mexico to make asylum-seekers, including families with young children (but not children alone), wait in Mexico for months or even years while their asylum claims play out. Far more crime occurs and harm comes to these families while waiting in Mexico than on the U.S. side. "They started out with sort of a deterrence approach, but realized fairly early on that this was a humanitarian situation," said Michelle Brané, who directs the Migrant Rights and Justice program at the Women's Refugee Commission.

Claim: "Before the HOPE scholarship, 70 percent of the high school students who made 1400 or above on their SAT left the state of Georgia. Now, 70 percent of those stay in the state of Georgia."
Evidence Summary: Georgia State’s leaders turned to predictive analytics to fix a long, perplexing problem in higher education. The 4 out of 10 students who start college and don’t finish in at least six years—some never. The university has monitored its 52,000 students using 800 different academic risk factors, from how well they're doing in algebra to whether they've started to miss class regularly. The goal is to catch students before they reach a crisis point and provide the advising and instructional help to get them through it.

Claim: "Oregon concealed gun applications include home phone numbers, home address, Social Security numbers, what kinds of guns you have in the house whether you were dishonorably discharged from the military, what controlled substances you are taking and were you ever accused of -- accused, mind you -- of stalking."
Evidence Summary: The full measure, when it goes into effect later this year, will expand the background check process. It will ensure that vetting for rifle purchases is the same as for buying pistols. In most states, including over the border in Idaho and Oregon, you must be 18 to buy an assault rifle. The state has expanded its firearm ban for domestic abusers and stalkers to close a so-called "boyfriend loophole" and ban all convicted stalkers, abusers and people under restraining orders from buying or owning guns.

Claim: "When I become the nominee, the Democratic nominee, I will be the only pro-choice candidate on the ballot."
Evidence Summary: With Democrats now in control of the U.S. House of Representatives, it might appear that the fight over abortion rights has become a standoff. But those on both sides of the debate insist that won’t be the case. The explosion of female presidential candidates perhaps comes as no surprise, given the huge success of women in the congressional midterm elections in November. In both the House and Senate, more women won election than at any time in U.s. history. But any policy shifts would also have to be undertaken on a case-by-case basis, Matthews said.

Claim: "While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up."
Evidence Summary: Arlington Heights is the 33rd community in the state to raise the purchasing age of tobacco products from 18 to 21. Public health officials and students launched the grassroots “Tobacco 21’ campaign a couple of years ago. “We need to keep the momentum up because we know this works,” said Julie Mirostaw, senior government relations director for the American Heart Association. But strict laws on selling vape products to underage kids can reduce the number of teens who try e-cigarettes.

Claim: "While 38 percent of (firearms) dealers that were inspected in 2011 were noncompliant with federal law, only 0.05 percent of inspected dealers had their licenses revoked."
Evidence Summary: J.B. Pritzker signed legislation to give the state more oversight over Illinois firearms dealers. The Illinois State Rifle Association threatened to challenge it in court. The path to Thursday’s ceremonial bill signing was an unusual one, as Democratic lawmakers tried to avoid former Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner. Even without Democrats' gains in November's midterm elections, the industry was facing a so-called "Trump slump," a plummet in sales that happens amid gun rights-friendly administrations.

Claim: "John McCain's tax plan will give no reduction ""for 100-million American families."""
Evidence Summary: O'Brien called the United States' latest tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" The corporate tax rate has been similarly slashed around the world over the past decades, with some countries now mulling over further cuts in response to the US move to do so. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," O'Brien said. "The only winners in the race to the bottom on corporate tax are the wealthiest among us," she added.

Claim: I think [a little] less than half of the people in our prisons are in there for less than a year. ... We have people who are check kiters and dont pay child support and we are locking them up in the state pen.
Evidence Summary: Rory Stewart says move could ease pressure on prison population. Almost two-thirds of prisoners released after sentences of less than 12 months reoffend within a year. Justice Secretary David Gauke and Mr Stewart have both made it clear they want to reduce the use of short prison sentences. The prison population has doubled in England and Wales since the early 1990s, rising from around 40,000 to more than 80,000 in 2019, official figures show. More than half of the 86,275 offenders sentenced to immediate custody in 2017 were handed sentences of six months or less.

Claim: "Rob Portmans plan to tax, slash and privatize Social Security would devastate Ohioans."
Evidence Summary: Illinois government is a train wreck and now there is nobody left to stop Madigan from running the state into the ground. President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes.” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and he wasn’t re-elected. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized.

Claim: "In the past, President Obama has refused to meet with representatives from Cuban exile organizations."
Evidence Summary: Castro: Washington should forge new alliances, particularly in Latin America. If citizens of those nations can feel safe in their home countries, he argued, it could help stem the flow of migrants arriving at the US’s southern border. On Syria, Castro said he supported withdrawing US troops, but in a “sensible way” “He has been very erratic,” he said of the president. “There has been a disappointment by individuals of Cuban descent who reside in Florida with the abject lack of Obama Administration initiatives"

Claim: We buy 35 percent of all Chinese exports.
Evidence Summary: China's politically sensitive trade surplus with the United States surged to a record $323.3 billion in 2018 as a tariff battle with Washington intensified. December exports to the U.S. contracted 3.5 percent compared with a year earlier, however, as President Donald Trump's punitive tariffs hit in a fight over Chinese technology ambitions. For the year, exports rose 11.3 percent to $478.4 billion while imports of American goods rose just 0.7 percent over 2017. That reflects the impact of Beijing's retaliatory tariffs and encouragement to importers to buy more from other suppliers.

Claim: Wisconsin now ranks among the top 10 states for out-migration.
Evidence Summary: The state ranks 20th in population but has landed among the top 15 states for drunken-driving arrests every year from 2005 through 2017. In 2015 alone, nearly 200 people were killed and an additional 2,900 were injured in alcohol-related crashes in the state. And last year the U.S. Centers for Disease Control released a survey in which one in four Wisconsin respondents reported binge-drinking at least once in the past month. The Princeton Review in 2017 rated the University of Wisconsin-Madison as the school with the most beer.

Claim: Weve outdrawn the Super Bowl for a little while now in the arenas and stadiums that weve followed them in for the Super Bowl. Weve gone in after [the NFL] and surpassed their ticket sales.
Evidence Summary: The State of the Union speech may rival the Super Bowl in the Nielsen ratings. Clemson Tigers have beaten Alabama to the College Football title for the second time in three seasons. Gerardo “Tata” Martino, the former Argentina soccer coach who recently led Atlanta United to the MLS title, has been officially unveiled as the new manager of Mexico’s national team. The Clemson Tigers are the first perfect playoff champions since the dawn of of the AP poll era in 1936. For more on this story, watch CNN iReport.

Claim: Says Paul Workman authored legislation providing amnesty for illegal immigrants.
Evidence Summary: “We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” Coulter added, referring to Trump’s 2016 GOP primary rival, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush. Tom Fitton, president of the right-wing activist group Judicial Watch, tweeted that the overture to Democrats “will encourage more illegal immigration and undermine the rule of law” NumbersUSA called the offer “a loser for the forgotten American workers who were central to his campaign promises.”“An amnesty-for-wall trade would once again reward previous immigration lawbreakers without preventing future immigration lawbreaker,” Beck said in a statement.

Claim: "John McCain ""voted against the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003, wrongly claiming they helped only the rich."""
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez proposed a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million to fund a Green New Deal and fight climate change. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down. On the right, libertarians argue that taxation amounts to theft, no matter whom it helps or hurts. Egalitarians argue that inequality has inherently poisonous effects on politics and society, and so the goal of taxing the rich isn't just to raise revenue.

Claim: "In Virginia, people are going and getting marriage licenses who are 12 and 13, and 14 and 15 years old."
Evidence Summary: There are no nationwide statistics on child marriage, but data from a few states suggests it is far from rare. State laws generally set 18 as the minimum age for marriage, yet every state allows exceptions. Most states let 16- and 17-year-olds marry if they have parental consent, and several states – including New York, Virginia and Maryland – allow children under 16 to marry with court permission. Fraidy Reiss, who campaigns against coerced marriage as head of a group called Unchained at Last, researched data from her home state of New Jersey. She determined that nearly 4,000 minors, mostly girls, were married in the state from 1995 to 2012.

Claim: "The federal government is spending $46,000 a year per family (or group of four) and could balance its budget by dropping that to $30,000."
Evidence Summary: If Congress passes a balanced budget, each member of should get a $1 million bonus. The total cost would be $535 million if each of the 535 members of Congress received such a bonus. Balancing the budget means lowering the cost of government while delivering the high quality services Illinoisans deserve. But be clear about this: I won’t balance the budget on the backs of the starving, the sick, and the suffering. It’s time to start the earnest work of creating a fair tax system.

Claim: "In just a few decades, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, other mandatory spending programs, and paying interest due on the debt will eclipse our entire budget."
Evidence Summary: As deficits balloon following their tax cuts, GOP leaders suggest curbing the massive Social Security and Medicare programs. But the demographic tidal wave of baby boomer retirements will swamp any politically feasible "entitlement reform" The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget, and the government projects the number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. That's why Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who advised President George W. Bush, agrees that governments led by either party will eventually need more revenue.

Claim: Senator Jeff Plale saved my job -- and some 300 others at Bucyrus International.
Evidence Summary: The larger lesson is to avoid despair. Changing laws is hard work, often involving years of frustration. But it really is possible for politics to improve people’s lives. Congratulations to all of the voters, activists, politicians and medical professionals in Maine who kept fighting for this change. An earlier version of this article misstated what company Covington & Burling lobbies for. We are happy to point out that this is not the case, and that the company is not lobbying on behalf of the White House.

Claim: "Barack Obama is ""the only candidate who doesn't take a dime from oil company PACs or lobbyists."""
Evidence Summary: The performance of candidates like former Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-Texas) established the political potency of swearing off super and corporate PACs. The second saw more than three-quarters of newly elected congressional Democrats pledge to say no to corporate PACs, which bundle donations from a business’ employees and funnel them to elected officials. Expect almost every Democratic candidate to make it part of their stump speech, and for Montana Gov. Steve Bullock it will be part of his too.

Claim: "Under Donald Trumps tax plan, the top 0.1 percent of taxpayers -- people earning multiple millions of dollars a year, on average -- would get more tax relief than the bottom 60 percent of taxpayers combined."
Evidence Summary: O'Brien: U.S. tax law "a master class on how to favor massive corporations and the richest citizens" "The only winners in the race to the bottom on corporate tax are the wealthiest among us," O'Brien added. A recent report found that $200 billion in benefits from the new law, out of a total of $275 billion, goes to the top 20 percent of households. Regardless of race, even solidly middle-class households (earning between $40,000 and $110,000) received relatively little.

Claim: "Barack Obama will ""raise Social Security taxes."""
Evidence Summary: Congressman John Yarmouth, D-Ky., said he expected Democrats to push to raise the corporate income tax from 21 percent to 25 or 27 percent. The Democratic party platform calls for a tax on carbon dioxide, an energy tax. Ocasio-Cortez’s 70 percent income tax rate is the opening shot in a renewed war against middle class taxpayers, writes Julian Zelizer. “What we have is a problem of moral courage. Our budgets are supposed to be an example of our moral values,” she said.

Claim: Says PolitiFact listed Governor Scott Walker of Wisconsin as the Governor who told the most lies and our own untruthful Governor Chris Christie made it into Politifacts top five of Lie - en Governors.
Evidence Summary: Despite his prolific rate of mistruths, a key part of the job is deciding what to call him out on. Qiu decided to ignore Trump’s claim that he had ordered “over 1,000” burgers for the Clemson football team. Kiely spoke of trying to avoid the “bright and shiny” lies in favor of focusing on policy issues. “Someone like Ted Cruz had a lot more finesse and the fact checks would take longer because he was a much more skilled spinner”

Claim: "Already, the mayor of Green Bay is having ribbon-cutting after ribbon-cutting for economic development around the new VA center."
Evidence Summary: Jon Costas opens his final state of the city address as mayor of Valparaiso. Mayor Rob Lansing says Jon Kiely is one of the best executives he has ever worked with. Since 1990, the city has grown larger and more diverse. The forum will serve as a kickoff for a series of neighborhood meetings to rewrite the city’s comprehensive master plan, an official says.. Brian Hopkins, 2nd: As residents of Chicago, we sincerely hope you will keep your word.

Claim: "(Bill) McCollum also voted for numerous amendments to weaken the legislation, even voting to make trains less accessible to those in wheelchairs."
Evidence Summary: Proposed state law would let cities issue $200 fines to railroad companies that fail to give advance warning when a train will block a crossing. The NIRPC task force on the issue has been looking for a potential solution at the federal level. The commission also approved a 2019 budget of $3.2 million, 16 percent less than last year’s. Labour has called for the railways to be renationalised, pointing to analysis from the party showing some fares have risen by more than £2,850 since 2010.

Claim: "People want the minimum wage, they want marriage equality, they want womens health care. Theres issues that actually that really do matter, social issues that matter to the people of this state. So I know Barbara would support those issues, I know the governor hasnt. Youve seen the actions hes taken on them."
Evidence Summary: "Being able to go toe-to-toe with him on law and order in a smarter way, I think, is going to be important," says Adam Nagourney. Warren called out the Trump presidency as "one grift after another" and called President Trump an "accelerant for corruption" "I got in this because I believe this is the fight we must fight. I can't tell other to fight it. I have to be there right beside them," she says.

Claim: Dubious taxpayer-funded stimulus spending -- Part II.
Evidence Summary: “I’m six days into the term, and you already used all your ammo. So enjoy being exhausted for the next two years while we run train on the progressive agenda.” – Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y. “To Congress it’s lunch money. To put it in perspective, in 2009 when Democrats controlled both Houses of Congress and the White House, they passed a $787 billion stimulus bill,” writes Jim Crawford.

Claim: "Phil Puckett voted no on sending the EPA a message that theyve gone too far not once, but twice."
Evidence Summary: Polis had previously pushed a number of anti-fracking ballot measures, including a 2,000-foot setback. In a compromise with then-Gov. John Hickenlooper in 2014 that took the measures off the ballot, Polis helped create a task force to weigh local control and environmental impacts. “It’s time for us to take meaningful action to address the conflicts between oil-and-gas drilling operators and the neighborhoods that they impact,” Polis said.

Claim: "A recent study revealed that, across the nation, taxes would have to be increased by an average of $1,300 a year just to support the currently unsustainable public employee pension systems. In Florida, that dollar figure translates to $813 a year."
Evidence Summary: Five Chicago mayoral candidates threw out ideas about how they’d grapple with staggering public pension debt the new mayor will face within months of taking office. Illinois’s constitution won’t allow existing pensions to be diminished or impaired, but future pensions must be made affordable, and mayoral candidates must be forced to address that reality. The pension hole is one of the most pressing problems the city will face during the next four years, a potential financial albatross that starts at nearly $300 million in 2020 and grows to nearly $1 billion by 2023.

Claim: "Obama voted to raise taxes on people making just $42,000."
Evidence Summary: Walker failed on both counts Tuesday when he tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize the congresswoman’s proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down. In 2010, for example, Mitt Romney made about $22 million dollars in investment income. He paid an effective federal tax rate of 14 percent. For normal upper-middle-class wage earners, the federal tax rates is nearly 40 percent.

Claim: "Says McCain once said that on ""the most important issues of our day, I've been totally in agreement and support of President Bush."""
Evidence Summary: South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham says he's skeptical of President Trump's promises. Graham: "The American people are very conservative in the sense of not wanting radical change quickly. It just doesn’t work.” This comes as Trump meets with congressional leaders today to talk about border security and presumably come up with a plan to end the partial government shutdown. Scott Jennings: Graham's op-ed is a moral and ethical takedown of the president of the United States by a new senator from his own party.

Claim: "Says if we raise the number of third-graders who read at a third-grade level, we affect everything, from graduation rates to incarceration rates."
Evidence Summary: Round Lake School District 116 plans on adding interventionist teaching positions to help students in math and reading. Since the start of this school year, about 70 elementary students have either exited or reduced their time in reading intervention, an official says. While richer California students are keeping up with their peers in learning to read, lower-income students are as much as one grade behind the national average. “The problem,” Iwazeki said, “is there is no silver bullet.”

Claim: "The 2016 federal omnibus spending bill funds illegal immigrants coming in and through your border, right through Phoenix."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump will make a prime time address about the "Humanitarian and National Security crisis on our Southern Border" "I said they're going to pay for the wall. I didn't mean please write me a check, I mean very simply, they're paying for it in the trade deal," he said. But data and analysis from his own administration have drastically undercut that message, calling into question whether the situation along the U.S.-Mexico border is truly a "national emergency" as Trump has increasingly claimed.

Claim: "Says as of November, we were ranked 45th in the nation in terms of job creation, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics."
Evidence Summary: U.S. employers dramatically stepped up their hiring in December, adding 312,000 jobs in an encouraging display of strength for an economy in the midst of a trade war. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon. The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "When it comes to aid, ""the United States is still about half as what European countries give as a percentage."""
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has spent more than $130 billion in aid to Afghanistan, including $80 billion to train and equip its security forces. Steve Chapman: Afghan government forces control barely half the country, with the Taliban insurgents currently controlling or contesting more territory than at any time since 2001. Chapman: If our allies were obliged to provide for their own defense without us, they could easily afford to do so. He says a long-standing and valuable relationship should be ended only for defensible motives, under a rational plan.

Claim: "You dont see Norway losing population, and its taxes are astronomical."
Evidence Summary: Norway is known for its fjords and mountains, its coastline and the mystical northern lights. Some in the Labour party are starting to see Norway as a silver bullet. But by mimicking Norway’s EU relations, we will not magically gain our own $1tn sovereign wealth fund. Margaret Thatcher squandered our North Sea oil in exchange for tax cuts in the 1980s. It is far too late for that. But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to.

Claim: "Georgia public sector employees do not have a say in the conditions of their employment, do not have bargaining rights or a say in their working conditions."
Evidence Summary: A shocking number of federal employees believe that basic constitutional protections do not apply to themselves. Without a pushback from organized labor, more and more of the civil service continues to face ever deeper cuts. The question we should be asking is not whether federal workers will, can or should strike, but whether they have power in the workplace that they don't have as citizens. Aldermen voted to delete any legal language that would require union dues to be withheld, instead leaving the decision on whether or not to make dues payments up to each city employee.

Claim: "When Mitt Romney was governor, Massachusetts ... (had) more debt per person than any other state in the country."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney was criticized for his comments on President-elect Trump. But he got a shoutout from departing Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz) and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) Romney's comments were criticized for being too centrist. But they were also seen as a way for him to show that he would not be a repeat of President Obama's failed White House bid in 2008. The comments were also criticized for ignoring the fact that the U.S. is deeply in debt.

Claim: "Says that as Massachusetts governor, Mitt Romney condemned coal-fired plants, saying they kill people."
Evidence Summary: Jay Inslee (D) signed a pledge Tuesday promising to reject donations from the fossil fuel industry ahead of a likely run for the White House. Gallagher (AJG.N) has invested in 34 facilities producing so-called refined coal, which is chemically treated to make it burn cleaner. Gallagher has accumulated about $850 million worth of U.S. government tax credits from the business. The companies are accelerating the closure of coal plants, as wind and solar power become more economical alternatives, aided by federal subsidies.

Claim: "We know from ... the federal data, that they only stop or apprehend one out of four illegal people crossing our border."
Evidence Summary: Sarah Sanders defended the administration’s immigration agenda when facing questions from Chris Wallace of Fox News. “We know that roughly, nearly 4,000 known or suspected terrorists come into our country illegally, and we know that our most vulnerable point of entry is at our southern border,” Sanders said. ‘I know this statistic,’ Wallace jumped in, “I didn’t know if you were going to use it, so I studied up on this. Do you know where those4,000 people … where they’re captured? Airports’

Claim: "Youve got each day 10,000 new seniors, baby boomers, becoming eligible for the entitlement programs."
Evidence Summary: The 2019 deficit will exceed the entire Medicare budget. The number of Americans 65 and older will jump 50 percent to 77 million in 15 years. Douglas Holtz-Eakin: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few" Many readers of these columns have told me they are just hanging on until they turn 65 when Medicare will pay their medical bills.. Many of the millennials I spoke to for this piece mentioned these lived experiences as a reason they were so thrilled to see a critical mass of their peers so visibly in government.

Claim: "Says economists Harvey Rosen and Martin Feldstein have said that paying for (Mitt) Romneys tax cuts would require large tax increases on families making between $100,000 and $200,000."
Evidence Summary: In 2010, for example, Mitt Romney made about $22 million dollars in investment income. He paid an effective federal tax rate of 14 percent. For normal upper-middle-class wage earners, the federal tax rates is nearly 40 percent. Ocasio-Cortez referenced tax rates returning to levels seen in the 1950s and 1960s, when the richest Americans were taxed at up to 90 percent. Women supported the proposal by 62-38 percent and men favored it by 55-45 percent, according to the Hill.

Claim: "Housing prices dropped for the 30 months prior to Barack Obama taking office, and they have stabilized, theyve been about flat since the president came in."
Evidence Summary: Home affordability has been worsening since the real estate market bottomed in 2012. The recovery in home values has easily surpassed gains in typical paychecks. The median net worth of homeowners surged by an inflation-adjusted 15 percent from 2013 to 2016. It's more affordable to rent, rather than buy, that roof over your head in 93 percent of larger counties around the U.S. That includes real estate markets known for sky-high prices and a shortage of a middle-class housing, including Boston, Chicago, Las Vegas, Miami, New York, San Francisco.

Claim: "You cant bring an iPad or a piece of paper and a pencil in the (Wisconsin Assembly) gallery to take notes of whats going on, but you can bring a gun up there."
Evidence Summary: The Supreme Court agreed to hear a challenge to a New York City gun ordinance. The court has not heard a Second Amendment case since 2010. The new case will illuminate the court’s approach to gun rights. Police said Britten knew his alleged assailant, who fled the scene on foot. The man posted an image of a handgun in a red circle with a diagonal line through it and ridiculed the notion of “gun-free zones.“How could this happen? Don’t they have that little sticker on the door?” he wrote.

Claim: "Passage of Clinton budget bill in 1993 ""led to an enormous flowering of the economy in America."""
Evidence Summary: Growth slowed, and the American economy slipped into a mild recession in July 1990. The sluggish economy led to Bush’s defeat in 1992. The Nasdaq spiked sevenfold between 1993 and its peak in early 2000. The S&P 500 declined 40% under Bush, the worst among modern administrations. Bush inherited the dotcom bust, which spawned the 2001 recession. The U.S. enjoyed the longest period of uninterrupted economic growth in modern history. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years.

Claim: Says he tore down hundreds of abandoned homes that served as havens for crime and reduce(d) the value of our neighborhoods.
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump listed tens of thousands of crimes he said were committed by undocumented immigrants. His statement that people in the country illegally are a special menace to public safety is at odds with plentiful research. Multiple studies from social scientists and the libertarian think tank Cato Institute have found that immigrants are less likely to commit crime than U.S. citizens. A March study by the journal Criminology found "undocumented immigration does not increase violence" Last year, he saw his victory margin diminish after making headlines for reportedly supporting a Toronto mayoral candidate with neo-Nazi ties.

Claim: "The proposed mine in northern Wisconsin would be built without any government oversight, and will be nine miles long."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump has been briefed on a plan that would use the Army Corps of Engineers and a portion of $13.9 billion of Army Corps funding to build 315 miles of barrier along the U.S.-Mexico border. The money was set aside to fund projects all over the country including storm-damaged areas of Puerto Rico. The plan could be implemented if Trump declares a national emergency in order to build the wall and would use more money and build more miles than the administration has requested from Congress.

Claim: "At the moment, energy companies spend 0.25 percent on RD."
Evidence Summary: Analysts are expecting a high single digit percentage rise of nearly £100 for a typical annual fuel dual bill. Energy minister Claire Perry said the government had been ‘absolutely clear’ that the measure was a price cap, not a price freeze. Check24 looked at 834 local utilities that included municipal companies in cities such as Frankfurt, Aachen and Bremen. 500 had hiked prices in January, or announced that they would do so shortly. The increases averaged 5.1 percent and applied to 4.7 million households.

Claim: "Ohio is probably top five in the country, sadly, in terms of heroin overdoses. Its now exceeded car accidents as the No. 1 cause of death in Ohio."
Evidence Summary: Drug overdose deaths set a record in 2017, killing more than 70,000 Americans. Each day more than 130 Americans die after overdosing on opioids, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released a report finding the number of drug overdose deaths among middle-aged women skyrocketed between 1999 and 2017. "We must expand the entire infrastructure for addiction care in our country, and address the comprehensive needs for women struggling with opioid-related issues," the report says.

Claim: The Russians didnt wear uniforms when they came in to Ukraine.
Evidence Summary: The new uniforms are nearly identical to the ones worn by the Swiss Guard. They are made in Switzerland and weigh less than the old ones. The new uniforms will be worn at official events such as the papal Mass. The uniforms will also be worn by members of the Russian Orthodox Church. The church has lost 30 to 40 percent of its members due to the conflict in Ukraine, according to reports. The Russian government says it is following international law and law of the sea. The U.S. government says Russia is acting in its own interests.

Claim: "Says that illegal immigrants get a $100,000 break on University of Texas tuition over four years."
Evidence Summary: In exchange for $5.7 billion to erect a barrier along the border with Mexico, Mr. Trump said he would agree to extend protection for three years for the roughly 800,000 immigrants who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. ‘dreamers’ need a path to citizenship, not merely a three-year reprieve. Any piece of a wall would reinforce his hateful, anti-immigrant rhetoric. He’s unreliable, having made and withdrawn similar offers in the past. This one isn’t good enough.

Claim: "Since I took office, Wisconsin ranks 11th in the nation in total business establishment growth compared to 47th in the years Mary Burke was Commerce secretary."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Rauner pointed to some small-bore achievements during his farewell appearance Thursday before the Tribune Editorial Board. But he didn't come close to backing up his parting boast, “I’ll put our track record of accomplishment up against any governor in the U.S. in the last four years,” he said. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests.

Claim: The home-mortgage deduction is widely thought to be a middle-class benefit. Its not -- 73 percent of it goes to people making a quarter-million dollars or more a year.
Evidence Summary: In the past year, the availability of homes that a middle-class family could buy has declined in 86 percent of the largest metro areas. The squeeze goes well beyond the famously high-priced home markets of San Francisco, Seattle and New York. In metro areas long known for affordable home values, the number of homes for sale that a household with a median income could afford has slipped. The overall trend poses a major risk for many Americans: Household equity is the principal source of wealth for middle class households.

Claim: "Bill McCollum ""cost the rest of us billions"" as a member of Congress, including a national debt that ""skyrocketed"" to $4.7 trillion."
Evidence Summary: A few years ago, I wrote about my simple plan to solve government spending. If Congress passes a balanced budget, then each member of should get a $1 million bonus. The total cost would be $535 million if each of the 535 members of Congress received such a bonus. In Ocasio-Cortez’s draft resolution, she suggests funding her proposal using “the same ways that we paid for the 2008 bank bailout and extended quantitative easing programs.”

Claim: "Says Donald Trump was asked if he would defend our allies. He said well, first hed want to know if they made any payments to us to defend them."
Evidence Summary: Trump said he hopes the United States never has to use space weapons, but "there are some very bad players out there" He also again demanded that countries like Germany "step up" and pay more for their own national defense, saying "we cannot be the fool for others" While criticizing Iran as an adversary, Trump did mention another rival interested in missiles: North Korea. The Trump administration released its new missile defense review as officials speak with North Korea counterparts about a possible second meeting between Trump and Kim Jong Un.

Claim: "In 2008, tourism brought in $38 billion dollars and supported more than 300,000 jobs in the state of New Jersey."
Evidence Summary: Tunisia's tourism revenues jumped in 2018 to $1.36 billion, official figures show. The tourism industry accounts for 8 percent of Tunisia’s gross domestic product. Kenya's earnings from tourism jumped by almost a third in 2018 from the previous year to 157.4 billion shillings ($1.55 billion) Along with tea exports and cash sent home by Kenyans living abroad, tourism is one of the top sources of hard currency for the East African nation.

Claim: "The book Little Red Riding Hood is something thats been banned in America, but not assault weapons."
Evidence Summary: "When will we come to grips with the fact that we MUST deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets and the trauma that is turning our young people into victims and perpetrators of violence" "I'm going to give her an AK-47 so she can hang with me," he said. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he added. "Whether I have a gun on me or not, I'm running to see and to protect my family. I had a gun though."

Claim: The nations food supply is 99.99 percent safe.
Evidence Summary: The partial government shutdown has sharply reduced inspections of the nation's food supply. The FDA is working to bring back about 150 employees to restart inspections of high-risk facilities as early as next week. But inspections of routine facilities are at a standstill. The government says the U.S. food supply is very safe, but a consumer group says it could be safer. The Center for Science in the Public Interest called the reductions in inspections "unacceptable" and called for more inspections of baby formula, seafood and produce.

Claim: "150,000 (oil spill) claims have been filed by Floridians, but only 40 percent of them have been paid."
Evidence Summary: In 2015, after two decades of legal battle, Exxon was cleared of most charges in the lawsuit, but was ordered to pay a total of $30,000 to residents closest to the site. The waste pits site owner, Campbell Wells, settled a separate lawsuit for a reported $7m. And then, in 2010, the BP spill happened. It is estimated that 3.9m barrels of oil leaked into the Gulf. “The BP spill was a disaster for our communities”, says Friloux.

Claim: "In Rhode Island today, 25 percent of our households either dont have a bank account at all, or they have a bank account and theyre still relying on high-cost financial services like payday loans, pawn shop check cashing and so on."
Evidence Summary: Bankrate survey found six of 10 people in the U.S. lack the savings to handle an unforeseen $1,000 expense. The findings square with other data pointing to widespread economic insecurity. weak wage growth going back decades, volatility in worker pay, rising cost of things like housing, education and health care. "All this has combined to form a perfect storm to leave millions of Americans high and dry when it comes to financial stability," said Scott Astrada, director of federal advocacy at the Center for Responsible Lending.

Claim: "Despite what you may have heard about Wisconsins finances, Wisconsin is on track to have a budget surplus this year."
Evidence Summary: He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. He tweeted about having eliminated the state property tax, landing the Foxconn project and increasing services for veterans. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people of the state of Wisconsin," Walker said. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests.

Claim: "Says that from 1992 through 2010, every statewide candidate drawing over 43 percent of the vote in a Republican Texas primary won the resulting runoff."
Evidence Summary: Texas' last legislative session ended with one lawmaker threatening to shoot another after reporting Hispanic protesters to immigration agents. Now after years of the Texas Capitol playing host to some of the nation's biggest fights over abortion, immigration and anti-LGBT laws, some legislators in both parties foresee the midterm results and 2020's high stakes as curbing the appetite for divisive bills. The party in power after the 2020 election will draw new voting maps — an upper hand Republicans used last time to carve Texas into a 101-49 House supermajority in 2011.

Claim: "The president has added close to 68,000 troops in the last year, since he came into office, not just the 30,000 you hear, but the others that were added before that."
Evidence Summary: "Our troops have done all we have asked them to do and more," then-Sen. Obama once said. "No amount of American soldiers can solve the political differences at the heart of somebody else's civil war," he added. "Our troops are coming out," President Donald Trump said in December. "Now" first meant 30 days, according to Pentagon officials. Then it meant 120 days. “It’s why we’ve been meeting for two weeks,” he said.

Claim: "I vetoed more than $3 billion in spending. Lawmakers and I cut taxes for 40,000 small businesses. Now Texas is No. 1 in job creation. The nations five best housing markets are right here in Texas. We balanced five state budgets and we cut state spending."
Evidence Summary: Trump's signature legislative accomplishment, a sweeping new federal tax bill, was cited almost universally as the most important work the president has done since taking office. “I love the tax plan he has,” said the county’s top official Judge Rick Tennant. ‘I like that he tells you right out front what he likes, what he doesn’t like,’ he says of Donald Trump. � “The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done," Tennant says.

Claim: SaysDonald Trump called pregnant employees an inconvenience.
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump retweeted a column arguing that the shutdown is a good thing because the majority of federal workers don’t do anything. Despite their middle-class wages, federal workers have found themselves lumped in with the Washington “swamp” that needs draining. The president himself was criticized early on in the shutdown when he was similarly pressed on whether he could sympathize with workers who have to go without pay as he continued to demand Congress fund his proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.

Claim: "Every month, we get the reports from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that say even more people have given up looking for work."
Evidence Summary: "Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy. We need the government to start focusing on our education," she says. "I'm just hoping this government opens up." "The government really needs to get together and work this out," she adds. "There are many historical and social reasons for people to be economically inactive" "It's crucial that we tackle this issue head on," she writes. "We need to get out of this shutdown and get back to work"

Claim: Says signs posted at projects funded by the federal stimulus act has cost 20 or 40 million dollars.
Evidence Summary: Government contractors are expected to jack up prices on everything from helicopters to IT support, growing wise to an administration that doesn't pay its bills for weeks on end. The Justice Department placed an online job posting for a pair of attorneys to tackle border wall litigation in South Texas. The two advertised jobs, based in McAllen and Brownsville, will pay between $53,062 and $138,790, according to a federal jobs website. Both Naval Station Great Lakes and the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center in North Chicago are unaffected by the current shutdown.

Claim: "Amid the crisis at our southern border, there are reports of illegal migrants carrying deadly diseases such as Ebola virus."
Evidence Summary: An American man who had been monitored for possible exposure to Ebola while in Africa has been released from a hospital after showing no signs of the deadly disease. Sonia Shah sat down with Sarah Crichton, her editor, to talk about visiting illegal pig farms in China, the cholera epidemic of 1832, and her family's personal experience with the superbug MRSA. Sonia: There is nothing manufactured about children arriving at our borders dehydrated and sick, migrants being abused on a lawless pathway, deadly drugs coming across in droves.

Claim: "Says for the equivalent cost of a single mile of freeway, we have a bike infrastructure."
Evidence Summary: Australia's road toll has fallen to its lowest in four years, with 78 fewer deaths in 2018 than the previous year. There were 1,146 deaths on the nation’s roads in the 12 months to December, a 6.4% drop from 2017, when 1,224 were killed. Park Ridge aldermen have agreed to move forward with a study that will begin the process of determining whether bike lanes should replace driving lanes on Busse Highway in a so-called “road diet”

Claim: "If the debt ceiling is surpassed, our nation will not go into default as some suggest."
Evidence Summary: The deadline to raise the debt limit is formally in March. Without an increase, the U.S. would not be able to meet many of its financial obligations. In 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered the U.-S. credit rating even after Congress reached a last-minute deal. Democrats are hoping to avoid such showdowns in the future by making it easier to raise debt ceiling. The U.N. Security Council is expected to vote on raising the debt ceiling as early as next week.

Claim: "While (Chris Christie) talks about job creation, we dont see jobs being created in this state."
Evidence Summary: Both major parties ought to recognize the need to stanch an exodus of business and residents from Illinois. Their policy prescriptions to reverse the exodus differ. Pritzker said he would work to make Illinois “the fastest-growing big state economy in the nation’ Chris Christie says he turned down numerous roles in the administration but was frustrated in not being offered vice-president or attorney general. Trump did apparently offer Christie “special assistant to the president in the White House”, which he turneddown.

Claim: "Every illegal immigrant can be eligible for up to $36,000 to $38,000 in earned income tax credits without paying a dime in."
Evidence Summary: A recent report by my group Prosperity Now found that $200 billion in benefits from the new law, out of a total of $275 billion, goes to the top 20 percent of households. White households will receive $2,020 on average in benefits compared with $970 and $840 for Latino and black households respectively. Regardless of race, even solidly middle-class households (earning between $40,000 and $110,000) received relatively little — an average of $2.75 a day.

Claim: "Says when Mitt Romney was governor, Massachusetts was 47th in job creation"
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney's op-ed was a shallow political miscalculation and a pathetic attempt to be the center of attention. It appears Romney would rather bathe in the Washington swamp that has made him so comfortable for so long instead of taking on the failed status quo alongside President Trump. The timing of the article, just two days before Mr Romney is sworn in as senator for Utah, has prompted some to speculate he is positioning himself as a challenger to Mr Trump for the Republican presidential nomination. Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping.

Claim: "Says 97 cents of every dollar played represents over $500 million dollars that is returned to Oregonians every year to help support job creation, schools, state parks and watersheds."
Evidence Summary: The concert almost tripled the annual revenue of the tiny non-profit, which has just three paid staffers. The whole event was “out of the blue,” said Brian Rice, who chairs the foundation’s board. Since November, the foundation has given out $2.6 million in gift cards to victims of the Camp, Woolsey, Hill and other wildfires. It also funds scholarships to the children of firefighters who died in the line of duty and maintains a memorial to fallen firefighters in the state capitol.

Claim: "As governor, I cut $5 billion in spending."
Evidence Summary: Gavin Newsom proposed a $144 billion budget this week that will increase the state’s overall spending, with a large cut going towards education programs and health care initiatives. The governor laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation. At one point, apparently speaking extemporaneously as he walked across a stage, Mr. Newsom offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government.

Claim: "Ann Kuster turned a blind eye to those in need of funding by voting against funding for our nations veterans, low-income women and children, the FDA and the National Institutes of Health."
Evidence Summary: The Knights of Columbus was founded in the U.S. in 1882 as a society for working-class and immigrant Catholics. The group was reportedly one of the top contributors to California’s Proposition 8 campaign to ban same-sex marriage. Gabbard noted that the standard by which her fellow Democrats were using would have disqualified members of the Kennedy family from serving. Underwood spoke about the issues she made central to her campaign including health care and the difficulty individuals with pre-existing conditions can face.

Claim: "Currently, almost 40 percent of people with HIV are not diagnosed until they already have developed AIDS. And that can be up to 10 years after they first are infected with HIV."
Evidence Summary: An estimated 56,300 Americans will get infected with HIV/AIDS each year. Gay and bisexual men account for the highest number who have died from the disease. Thousands of us still endure high rates of poverty, mental health issues, social isolation and prejudice and discrimination in this country. James May was diagnosed HIV positive nearly 20 years ago, and living with the virus has changed a great deal. It’s not a death sentence and we’re living much longer, he says.

Claim: "From 1960, the year I was born, until the time I became Governor in 2003, the average two-year increase in Minnesota state spending was 21 percent. we brought that down dramatically, to about 1.7 percent per year."
Evidence Summary: California's new governor faces a slew of fiscal problems and the nagging issue of Illinoisans fleeing the Prairie State. Gavin Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. Mr. Newsom, in interviews, has pledged to increase spending on early childhood education and a few other programs, but nonetheless said he would continue the fiscal practices followed by the departing governor. “The governor prevents the engine from getting out of control. Well, that is what the governor has to do in state government”

Claim: "Semi-automatic weapons, whether pistol or rifle, were designed for use by the military on the battlefield."
Evidence Summary: Osborn previously served at the Pentagon as a Highly Qualified Expert with the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army - Acquisition, Logistics& Technology. He has also worked as an anchor and on-air military specialist for National TV networks. Osborn has a Masters degree in Comparative Literature from Columbia University-- This Story was first published last year and it being reprinted due to large-scale reader interest and current news news. Let's see if you're lucky." I could feel the pistol against my head… and hear them pulling the trigger.

Claim: "Says if elected, he would be the first Mayor who lives east of 82nd."
Evidence Summary: "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself," Paveza says. "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes" Mottl suggested board members declare whether they’ve had campaign donations from businesses. “I’d ask you to keep the personal matters out of it,” Schiappa says of the mayoral race.

Claim: "In the stimulus, ""$15 million dollars went to 'build a bigger, better airport' for the town of Ouzinkie, Alaska, population 165."""
Evidence Summary: The head of Trump’s economic council now says each week of the shutdown cuts quarterly growth by 0.13 percentage points. Alaska has the most federal workers affected per capita than any other state, and nearly half the federal workers there work for agencies without appropriations. "You’re trying to do what you can do to make your ends meet and now the guy that you depend on, your father, might not be able to help you like he has been," Alaska's senior senator said.

Claim: "For African-Americans between the ages of 17 and 20, the real unemployment rate is 51 percent."
Evidence Summary: Today, some 380,000 American families have a member sitting at home without a paycheck. That’s hundreds of thousands of family crises waiting to happen, writes Angela Simms. Simms: Presidents have a right to toot their own horns during good economic times because, heaven knows, they’ll get the blame when things turn sour. The upward trajectory of black, Hispanic and every other group's employment rates has continued a climb that began under President Barack Obama, she says.

Claim: President Obama has broken his pledge to the American people to be transparent throughout (health care reform negotiations).
Evidence Summary: Mark Whitaker: Obama lied to the American people about the origins of the 2012 terrorist attack on a U.S. consulate in Libya. He says Trump has failed to negotiate wall funding on at least four occasions, with these same missteps frequently reoccurring. Whitaker says the president's instinctive use of Twitter to engage in high-stakes complex diplomacy has also proved counterproductive and damaging. "It's going to make things quite uncomfortable for them," he says of the GOP-led House.

Claim: "In New Orleans, nearly100 percent of our kids are in charter schools."
Evidence Summary: About 1 in 5 Los Angeles public school students attend a charter school, the most of any school district in the nation. Charter schools are privately managed and most are nonunion. "If we allow this movement to win, then our schools will be privatized, our students will have less equity and less access, and our jobs and our healthcare will be attacked," said Caputo-Pearl at a rally on Friday. "A cap on charter schools won't solve the financial challenges before L.A. Unified," the charter schools association said.

Claim: "If you want to see the jobs that Ive saved and created in this storm he helped create, go anywhere in Ohio."
Evidence Summary: "I live in the plains and I've watched a tornado come down," he said. "What I saw in front of me that day was destruction from a terrible storm" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing when you look at who is representing us," he added. "He's served the ppl of Kansas well" "The government really needs to get together and work this out"

Claim: "Under Donald Trumps tax plan, 51 percent of single parents would see their taxes go up."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez recently suggested a 70 percent tax on the wealthy. The proposal also includes a job-guarantee program offering “a living wage job to every person who wants one;” a “just transition” for workers affected by climate change; basic income programs; universal health care and more. Women supported the proposal by 62-38 percent and men favored it by 55-45 percent, according to the Hill. Southerners back the concept by a 57 to 43 percent margin and 45 percent of Republican voters also viewed it positively.

Claim: "In 40 years, 23,000 chemicals came on the market and only four were regulated."
Evidence Summary: The FDA is supposed to inspect all factories, foreign and domestic, that produce drugs for the U.S. market. Hundreds of plants haven’t been inspected for years, if ever. Drugmakers fail to meet standards even after the FDA has taken enforcement action. Last July, for example, the FDA announced the first of many voluntary recalls of the blood pressure medicine valsartan because some tablets contain a cancer-causing impurity called N-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA)

Claim: "Over half of the people who would be taxed under (a millionaire surtax) are, in fact, small businesspeople."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s idea to raise the top tax rate to 70 percent on incomes of more than $10 million has sparked a month-long debate about the virtues of soaking the rich. Saez and Zucman argue that “root justification” for slapping tax rates on multi-millionaires “is not about collecting revenue.” Rather, it”s about combating inequality and “safeguarding democracy against oligarchy”

Claim: "Young women today in metropolitan areaswho are childless and single are out-earning childless, single young males."
Evidence Summary: "When girls are left behind, half the population is left behind," she says. Women are repeatedly under-represented in senior roles and a macho culture holds women back, she adds. "It's whether we as a country have the political will to support families," she said. "This is a political issue and it needs political solutions, not the assumption that women can solve these things as individuals on their own," she added. "When factories close, marriage rates go down and single parenthood becomes more common," MIT researchers found.

Claim: "You worked hard for your money and you paid your taxes when you earned it. Now, (Indiana Republican congressional candidate) Todd Young wants to tax it again when you spend it."
Evidence Summary: In Illinois, 76 percent of respondents to a Paul Simon Public Policy Institute poll expressed support for an extra 3-percent tax on income over $1 million. Conservatives who have pushed down top marginal tax rates have so far kept such initiatives at bay. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," says John Avlon, president of the Illinois Conservative United. "The future of Illinois depends on the passage of a fair income tax," Avlon says.

Claim: "In terms of the wealthiest Americans, were at the lowest tax rate since the 1950s."
Evidence Summary: In 1948, when CBS offered Jack Benny more than $2 million to bring his radio show to the network, he was able to treat it as capital gain. Gen. Dwight Eisenhower also successfully argued that $635,000 he earned from his 1948 memoir, “Crusade in Europe,” should be treated as a capital gain, saving him as much as $400,000 of tax. The point of high top marginal income tax rates is to constrain the immoderate, and especially unmerited, accumulation of riches.

Claim: No one thought we could get a bipartisan bill (Medicaid) passed. We did in the Florida Senate.
Evidence Summary: Democrats are bullish on health care as an electoral issue after focusing on President Donald Trump’s agenda during the midterm elections last year. Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state's voters. In New York, the mayor is eyeing a local plan to use city money to cover medical expenses for uninsured residents. California and New York City proposals include assistance for undocumented immigrants, who are ineligible for federal programs like Medicaid and the health insurance exchanges. In Idaho, Nebraska and Utah, voters approved ballot initiatives to expand coverage for low-income residents through Medicaid.

Claim: Were inches away from no longer having a free economy.
Evidence Summary: Idea Foundation says it is no longer funding tobacco policy. U.S. House of Representatives votes on a bill that would force the government to raise taxes on the wealthy. The bill is expected to be voted on by the House in the coming weeks. The Senate is also debating the bill, which would require the House to vote again on the issue of raising taxes on wealthy people to pay for social programs for the poor. The House voted on the bill last week, and the Senate is scheduled to vote on it in the next few weeks.

Claim: "Romneycare covers abortion, illegal immigrants and has a public option. Obamacare does not."
Evidence Summary: Romney said the country deserves border security, which includes more barriers on the U.S.-Mexico border. The backing for Trump in the shutdown dual illustrates Romney's stated goal of calling the president out when he disagrees while supporting him when he feels he's staking out the right position. Romney proved most willing to shapeshift in order to secure his political fortune when he turned on the most significant achievement of his political career: Romneycare. In both races, Romney cozied up to Planned Parenthood to demonstrate his pro-choice commitments.

Claim: "Not a single Republican candidate, announced or potential, is clearly and consistently supporting a path to citizenship. Not one."
Evidence Summary: “Using the word ‘self-deportation’ ― I mean, it’s a horrific comment to make,” he said. “There is too much at stake to take that gamble. If we are going to maintain a two-party system, the mandate needs to be a clear one.”“The wall remains the wrong direction for us as a country, something that will not help advance any of our national interests,’ he added.

Claim: Says Barack Obama promised gasoline at $2.50 a gallon.
Evidence Summary: U.S. gasoline prices on the last day of 2018 were down by a quarter a gallon from a year earlier. Wholesale gasoline fell 2.6 percent to $1.36 a gallon. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has proposed an increase of 30 cents per gallon to one of the nation’s highest gas taxes. Hong Kong had the highest price for a liter of gasoline on Jan. 7: $2.04 ($7.85 per gallon), according to GlobalPetrolPrices.com.

Claim: "Even after Syrian troops began to shoot protesters in the streets with live ammunition in 2011, Clinton labeled Bashar al-Assad a reformer."
Evidence Summary: President Obama failed to carry out his promise to punish the Syrian regime for atrocities. As a political decision, he was able to claim that keeping out of the fight was correct. But on a humanitarian level, how many hundreds of people died in Syria's civil war? Syria under Assad will likely continue to face conflicts and sputter on in limbo for years to come, with only a partial recovery, analysts say. For Syrians who rose up against Assad's rule, it can seem like the country is right back where it started eight years ago, they say.

Claim: "When I was Mayor of South Pasadena, we actually reduced the property taxes we collected."
Evidence Summary: Nearly 200 residents crowded into the St. Pius Church basement to hear from the panel of candidates on Thursday night. All of the candidates, except Flores said they wouldn’t accept campaign donations from developers or real estate industry professionals. They all agreed that residents need better protections from evictions and they said they supported a community driven zoning process. We put our pension question to each, knowing how pols on the campaign trail in Illinois hate to discuss the bleak state of pensions because it’s a no-happy-talk zone.

Claim: "Were losing almost 6,000 state jobs."
Evidence Summary: "Only the state of New York lost more residents. There are undeniable truths in all these numbers" "We need the government to start focusing on our education" "I feel extremely let down by the people in charge that this is suddenly my burden to bear" "You seem to represent the power brokers who keep you in office" "It is not a good place for them to be either but they will be paid eventually" 'We are pushing business out of the state and into other locations'

Claim: "About 40 percent of U.S. illegal immigrants came in on an airplane, with a legal visa, and just overstayed their visa and have never gone home."
Evidence Summary: In 2017, for the first time, the unauthorized population from Mexico constituted less than one-half of all the undocumented people in the U.S. Mexico was the leading country for visa overstays in 2016, "about twice the number from India, China and Venezuela," according to the study. The number of undocumented people coming from Venezuela, which is wracked by political and economic turmoil, increased from 60,000 in 2013 to 145,000 last year. "Since more than one half of all US undocumented residents arrive by air, visa-issuing posts have become the real frontline deterrent to undocumented migration," the study concludes.

Claim: "The Obama administration ""spent more money on the Cash for Clunkers program than the space program."""
Evidence Summary: An upcoming book by former White House communications official Cliff Sims says the president wanted the first manned spaceflight to the Red Planet done and dusted by the end of his first term in office ― 2020. Sims details Trump’s fantastical attempt to bring the mission forward by more than a decade in Team Of Vipers, excerpts of which New York magazine published on Tuesday. The author writes that Trump, before an April 2017 video call with U.S. astronaut Peggy Whitson, offered the space agency's then-acting administrator Robert Lightfoot Jr. unlimited funds if NASA “focused entirely” on the mission to Mars.

Claim: "Wikileaks also shows how John Podesta rigged the polls by oversampling Democrats, a voter suppression technique."
Evidence Summary: Manafort shared campaign polling data with Russian linked to intelligence sources. No indication in new documents of whether Trump was aware of the exchange or how the Russian involved might have used the data. “This revelation really raises more questions than answers,” said Robert Mintz, a former prosecutor now in private practice, “but it is significant because it provides additional evidence of high-level contacts between the Trump campaign and persons with ties to the Kremlin.” “Ultimately, this information suggests that the special counsel is building a bridge that, if completed, could have dramatic consequences for the White House,’ a former U.S. Attorney said.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton told her daughter and a government official that Benghazi was a terrorist attack, and then tells everybody else that it was a video."
Evidence Summary: Judge Royce Lamberth ruled Tuesday that Susan Rice and Ben Rhodes must answer written questions about the State Department's response to the 2012 terror attack in Benghazi. The lawsuit by Judicial Watch – now with the U.S. Court of Appeals District of Columbia Circuit – was first filed in 2014 in an effort to obtain records related to Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server. The group sought documents about Rice's explanation immediately after the attack that characterized it as a protest turned violent instead of a deliberate terrorist assault. The deposition is part of Judicial Watch's inquiry into whether the State Dept. acted in bad faith by not telling a court for months that they had asked in mid-2014 for missing emails to be returned.

Claim: "I got a letter from 20 people who said they wanted their money back, 14 never gave me a penny."
Evidence Summary: "The IRS was still figuring that out," TSA official says. "I'm sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments," he adds. "People understand exactly what’s going on," says TSA official. "We had one lady offer an agent money. The agent said no, so she just dropped a $5 bill on the ground.” "I was able to pay for my rent and my utilities for the first of the month, but now I have nothing in my bank," a woman says.

Claim: "So that 2005 energy bill was a big step backwards on the path to clean, renewable energy. That's why I voted against it."
Evidence Summary: Obama’s top priority when he took office after the 2008 financial crisis was to resuscitate an economy that was losing nearly 800,000 jobs per month. The stimulus that Obama worked out with a Democratic-controlled Congress would end up increasing U.S. clean energy spending more than twenty-fold. “The Green New Deal is not an ideal name if you want to attract bipartisan support,” says Rich Powell, executive director of the group Clear Path, which pushes conservative solutions to climate change.

Claim: "Every year the average woman loses around $11,000 to the wage gap, which amounts to a $500,000 vagina tax over her working career."
Evidence Summary: The proposed class includes women who have worked in product development, information technology and support functions since 2013. The huge gaps in base salaries, bonuses and stock value are not justified by any “valid job-related reasons”, the complaint said. The gender pay gap costs the economy $1.12 trillion annually, according to World Economic Forum estimates. In 2018 the median annual earnings of men was $68,848, for women it was just $48,776: The past two years has also seen the average earnings of all women in permanent employment rise by just 3.0% – well below inflation.

Claim: "Since December 2010 Florida has created 540,000 new jobs."
Evidence Summary: The US has now added jobs for 99 consecutive months – the longest streak of job creation since records began. Health care and education services added 82,000 jobs in December, the biggest jump since February 2012. Restaurants and drinking placed posted a net gain of 40,700 jobs. Builders added 38,000 construction jobs, while manufacturers increased their payrolls by 32,000 workers. Businesses are still searching for more workers. Job postings have risen 17 percent in the past year to 6.7 million.

Claim: "Because of the new health care law, 2.5 million young adults now have coverage."
Evidence Summary: 13.7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. Before the health care law’s major pieces went into effect during 2014, the uninsured rate peaked at 18 percent. But in the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent, not far from today's mark.

Claim: "Frankly, (Hillary Clinton) doesnt do very well with women."
Evidence Summary: Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Monday it's hard to be a woman running for president. Clinton made her comments during an appearance in Manhattan alongside New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. Her comments come just days after Massachusetts Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren announced she was exploring the possibility of challenging President Trump in the 2020 election. Since Clinton was perceived to be unlikable, every other female candidate is now being compared to her on this measure. This is a core part of the tightrope women must walk when running for office, particularly president.

Claim: "In the early 1960s, all levels of government were consuming about 27 percent of the U.S. economy, a number that has risen to 37 percent today. With that trendline, we cease at some point to be a free economy."
Evidence Summary: President's top economist Larry Kudlow says the U.S. is not a government-run economy. But he could not deny mounting financial worries – even inside the White House. The shutdown is now in its 33rd day, and the economy of the entire country is starting to feel the pinch. The two party system created a voting process which is an illusion, and a government that fluctuates between two extremes – each extreme annulling any progress made by the opposition in the prior administration.

Claim: "Hillary Clinton ""actually differed with (John McCain) by arguing for exceptions for torture before changing positions."""
Evidence Summary: Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., spent a fair amount of time in the first week of her campaign apologizing for her past positions that were significantly more centrist and conservative than where the Democratic Party is today. Virginia Democratic freshman Jennifer Wexton removed the POW/MIA flag in front of her office, even though almost 60,000 civilian veterans live in her district. The ridiculousness of these actions is only matched by the extreme policies the out-of-touch House Democrats are trying to sell us.

Claim: The hole in the earth thats going to be dug (for the proposed Gogebic mine) is bigger than my entire district.
Evidence Summary: More than two dozen miners have been killed in the collapse of a gold mine in northeastern Afghanistan. The collapse was attributed to a landslide in the area, a provincial police official told Reuters. The well is 360 feet deep and only about 10 inches wide, a spokesman for the Málaga Civil Guard says. Afghanistan's untapped mineral resources are said to be worth as much as $1 trillion but war and political instability have kept most investors away, according to Reuters.. A specialist mine rescue team was en route to the scene on Tuesday afternoon.

Claim: "Health insurance companies are making record profits, right now."
Evidence Summary: Health spending in the U.S. is the highest in the world, totaling $3.3 trillion in 2016, or 17.8 percent of the gross domestic product. Drug companies spend the bulk of their money trying to influence doctors, showering them with free food, drinks and speaking fees. Pharmaceutical marketing to health professionals accounted for the biggest outlay, and climbed from $15.6 billion to $20.3 billion despite new policies at hospitals and medical schools designed to limit industry influence over prescribing.

Claim: "Every 10th dollar spent by the Social Security Administration on its program for the poor is waste, or fraud, they cant validate that the people should have gotten it, totaling about $8 billion a year."
Evidence Summary: In 2016, 96 percent of Trump supporters expressed generalized anger at federal policies. Much of this animus is rooted in a race-based contempt for the allegedly useless “other’ The myth that support for low-income families is sucking America dry is also pernicious. Many Americans who benefit from government assistance are literally in denial. The shutdown is putting America's social safety nets at risk, writes Julian Zelizer. It has long been the dream of movement conservatives to bring to the knees a federal government that grew dramatically in scope.

Claim: "Says Bill Clinton gave a speech in 1996 about Iraq having WMDs and said we needed a regime change, even though everyone blamed those things on George W. Bush."
Evidence Summary: Journalists have abused the term fact-checking more than any supposed truth device in an attempt to attack Trump and his supporters. This time, the media decided Trump had lied before he ever spoke. When Tlaib told a crowd of cheering supporters, “We’re going to go in there and impeach the motherfucker,” Democratic strategists winced. The Republican prosecution of President Bill Clinton, after all, largely failed in 1999 because the impeachment process was seen by the public as a rash and partisan act.

Claim: "President Obama was saying success is the result of government, not hard-working people, when he said, If youve got a business, you didnt build that. Somebody else made that happen."
Evidence Summary: "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected, undocumented, unchecked...'” Barrack Obama, 2005," Trump wrote on Sunday, quoting the former president in 2005. Obama made the remarks at a press conference with then-Florida GOP Sen. Mel Martinez, as part of a bipartisan effort to address illegal immigration. "We all agree on the need to better secure the border and to punish employers who choose to hire illegal immigrants," Obama added at the time.

Claim: "Fox admits they lie and, under the First Amendment, have the right to lie or deliberately distort news reports on public airwaves."
Evidence Summary: The president, as is his wont, conflates many things with his attacks and counterattacks on the press. He fights back when he has a different version of a closed-door meeting, or when an off-the-record agreement is broken: fair enough. Ocasio-Cortez snapped back, as she usually does, asking: “At what point is Fox News obligated to not lie?” The attacks from the right continue as the congresswoman’s proposal seeking increased taxes on the super-rich may be gaining traction.

Claim: Federal investigators found a company that (David Perdue) ran discriminated against women -- paid them less than men for the same work.
Evidence Summary: US labor department accuses company of rampant exclusion of black and Hispanic people in hiring and higher pay for white men. US Department of Labor (DoL) has accused the tech firm Oracle of widespread discrimination against women and people of color. A federal complaint filed Tuesday said that out of roughly 500 people hired into technical jobs over a four-year period, only five were Hispanic and only six were African American. The DoL has also alleged that more than 5,000 women have been underpaid, with disparities as high as 20%.

Claim: "Says weve accomplished balancing two budgets without raising taxes. Weve now created 60,000 new private-sector jobs. Weve made government smaller."
Evidence Summary: The economy is projected to have grown at post-recession high of 3.1 percent in 2018. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. The new year will also bring a focus on the 2020 presidential election -- something Trump was already teasing.

Claim: "For the last decade, Floridians salaries have shrunk substantially when adjusted for inflation."
Evidence Summary: PayScale examined the difference between nominal wages -- what you're paid on paper -- and a paycheck's actual purchasing power after accounting for inflation. If pay growth is lower than the rise in the cost of living, a worker will have less purchasing power. The dip in real wages also is notable as it came during a year when corporations got generous breaks thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. That's concerning because it indicates more Americans are falling behind -- despite seeing the lowest U.S. unemployment rate in nearly 50 years.

Claim: "Congress shoveled $700 billion into the Troubled Assets Relief Program, $325 billion of which has been spent without purchasing any toxic assets."
Evidence Summary: The only serious source of funds is in the military construction bill. Democrats will go forum shopping in California where the appeal goes directly to the liberal Ninth Circus aka Ninth Circut. To Congress it’s lunch money. To show just how principled they are in their spending, they’ve also thrown money at swine odor and manure management research to the tune of $1.8 million. To put it in perspective, in 2009 when Democrats controlled both Houses of Congress and the White House, they passed a $787 billion stimulus bill, a $410 billion Omnibus Appropriations bill.

Claim: Christmas trees are grown in all 50 States.
Evidence Summary: About 100 volunteers spent the weekend collecting 1,860 real trees in Cambridge. People were asked to register their trees in return for a donation. The trees were then taken to a waste centre and composted free of charge. The money raised was double last year's total for Arthur Rank Hospice Charity. Christmas trees are being picked up for free during weekly trash and recycling collection in Aurora for two weeks from Monday through Jan. 18. To be properly recycled, trees must be free of plastic bags, all decorations including tinsel and tree stands.

Claim: "Tim Kaine, as governor, proposed tax increases on people earning as little as $17,000."
Evidence Summary: Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker tweeted a smarmy attempt to criticize Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's proposal for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down. Even 5th graders get it. Walker failed on both counts Tuesday when he tried to criticize the congresswoman’s proposal.

Claim: "When we held recent economic dialogues with China, we agreed on over 100 different things including wildlife trafficking and volcano research. None of these 100-plus points of agreement addressed cybersecurity."
Evidence Summary: U.S. intelligence officials remain hopeful that there is room to work with China. Russia and China will continue to "pursue a full range of anti-satellite weapons," officials predict. The best chance for successfully dealing with these issues is for the world’s two largest national economies to catalyze global action, an official says. "The strategic environment is changing rapidly, and the United States faces an increasingly complex and uncertain world," the official says, speaking on condition of anonymity.

Claim: "Obama ""promises more taxes on small business, seniors, your life savings, your family."""
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is the youngest member of the congress. She said that now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few. The economy works for everybody. Politicians like to misdirect your attention by talking about “taxing the rich” while they are enacting energy taxes that hit everyone who drives a car, heats their home or uses lights or air conditioning. Bill Clinton promised he would only raise taxes on the top 2 percent of earners. Obama promised, over and over, that he would never raise ANY taxes on ANYONE earning less than $250,000.

Claim: "Alex Sink was ""the first official who said that BP should pay $25 million for an ad campaign to promote Florida tourism."""
Evidence Summary: Tax filings disclosed the five largest vendors included payments of nearly $26 million to an event planning firm run by a one-time adviser and close friend of Melania Trump. The adviser, Stephanie Winston-Wolkoff, created a company called WIS Media Partners based in California that handled some of the festivities. That firm paid out contracts to other sub-contractors that were hired and used some ofThe St. Joe Company plans a ‘very important role’ in Hurricane Michael recovery. The company has announced or reaffirmed its involvement in several projects since the storm.

Claim: "Texas is experiencing the fastest population growth in the country, adding more than 1,000 people a day."
Evidence Summary: The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent, compared to 1.4 percent in 2017, 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent in 2015. “We are seeing a steady influx of people coming from states, including New York and California, coming for jobs and for changes in the tax code,” a Texas demographer said. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each, followed by Utah (1.9 percent), Arizona ( 1.7), and Florida and Washington (both 1.5).

Claim: "A few months into office, (President Barack Obama) traveled around the globe to apologize for America."
Evidence Summary: Pompeo directly repudiated Obama’s 2009 Cairo speech, which was an overture by the then-new president to the Islamic world. “I took office amid a great ethical, moral and economic crisis. I am committed to changing our history,” he said. ‘There is a lot of ambitious language, but very little actual commitment of U.S. resources,’ said Jon Alterman, director of the Middle East program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

Claim: "Her health care plan will cost $110-billion in the first year, which can be paid for with savings."
Evidence Summary: Theresa May launches long-awaited 10-year plan for the NHS in England. The budget will grow by £20bn a year by 2023 - the equivalent of annual rises of just under 3.5%. May said it was a "historic" moment and would help pay for "world class" treatments. The last time a 10- year plan was set out was in 2000 under Tony Blair. The number of people working in health care has more than doubled in the last 18 years - but there is still a health care worker shortage.

Claim: "Georgia has lost 14 percent of its jobs paying more than $50,000 a year and added 15 percent to its Medicaid rolls during the recovery."
Evidence Summary: Non-federal workers in Jesup, Georgia, say they have yet to feel the full bite of their fellow citizens’ hardship. “I hope they budgeted,” the owner of Alec’s Sports Bar, who goes by his initials A.B., shrugged after the group left his all-wood bar, lined with televisions turned to Fox News and sports. Just outside Jefords’ office, shuttered storefronts and near empty stores on the town's main drag lay empty.

Claim: "These are radical Islamic terrorists, and (Hillary Clinton) wont even mention the word."
Evidence Summary: "We say colorful things in interesting ways," Rep. Rashida Talib (D-Mich.) said of her constituents in Detroit. She doubled down in another Fox News appearance Wednesday, saying Trump "would certainly be open" to having the students visit the White House once the partial government shutdown ends. "The idea that anybody could take joy in the destruction of young kids is absolutely outrageous to me," she said on "Fox & Friends" Her comments were seen in a now deleted video on Twitter and reported by the Washington Post and the Huffington Post.

Claim: We [the city of Atlanta] are overbuilt on housing.
Evidence Summary: Between 2010 and 2017 prices in poor urban neighborhoods rose 50% faster than in rich neighborhoods. Escalating rents can also help to constitute markets out of condemned and otherwise uninhabitable properties. In Philadelphia, hundreds of apartments have been legally designated as “unfit for human habitation” and yet landlords, often illegally, collect tens of thousands of dollars in rent on these dwellings. The higher the costs of housing, the more those who suffer from lower wages and higher debt are forced to the margins of the market.

Claim: "Under those eight years before (Barack)Obama came along, we didnt have any successful radical Islamic terrorist attack in the United States since Sept. 11, 2001."
Evidence Summary: The speech went after Obama, while never mentioning his name, from nearly the outset. It is untrue that Obama claimed radical Islamic terrorism does not stem from ideology. What he said was that the 9/11 terrorists did not represent the full face of Islam. In Pompeo's view, Obama's speech heralded an era of timidity, wishful thinking, and what he called "willful blindness""His recent choices, unfortunately, are already giving the Islamic State — and other American adversaries — new life," Pompeo said.

Claim: "Says New Jersey lost private-sector jobs between 2000 and 2009 because Democrats increased taxes, fees, regulations and state spending."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Vin Gopal called for the bill to be voted down over the small business provision. He also criticized the plan having "no concrete economic study" to determine its potential impact. Phil Murphy spent a large portion of his state-of-the-state address Tuesday criticizing New Jersey’s corporate tax-incentive programs, citing a recent audit that showed the system lacked proper oversight. The New Jersey Business and Industry Association has those concerns and more. The solutions cannot be limited to new revenue raised by expanded gambling and legalizing recreational marijuana.

Claim: "Forty-five percent of those whove been unemployed, theyve been unemployed for six months or longer."
Evidence Summary: Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. Even wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly. The recovery has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains, and African-Americans, whose jobless rate has reached record lows. The share of people who have part-time positions but would prefer to work full time is higher today than it was in 2007.

Claim: "In 2011, (the Islamic State) attempted to attack Fort Knox."
Evidence Summary: "I just started hearing gunshots, and then started seeing people running away raising their hands up and some were entering the bank to hide for their lives," a woman working in a neighboring building said. "We are under attack," one person in an office inside the complex told Reuters, before hanging up. The attack came three years to the day after al-Shabab extremists attacked a Kenyan military base in neighboring Somalia, killing scores of people. A Tennessee man was sentenced to 235 months in federal prison in 2017 for recruiting 10 men to plan an attack on the same community.

Claim: "Thanks to our policies, for the first time in state history, we have put millions of dollars into our rainy day fund in consecutive years."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom’s agenda is likely to be costly, and thus likely to face obstacles. He vowed to be “prudent stewards of taxpayer dollars, pay down debt, and meet our future obligations. And we will build and safeguard the largest fiscal reserve of any state in American history. But let me be clear: We will be bold.’’ and added, “we have a homeless epidemic that should keep every one of us up at night”

Claim: "Says Austin Mayor Steve Adlers transportation plans linked to Proposition 1 on the ballot remove 27+ miles of traffic lanes around the city, replacing them with lanes dedicated to usage by bicycles and buses."
Evidence Summary: The city’s share of dedicated bus lanes is still low, at just 4.1 miles compared with 82.8 miles in New York. The reason for declining bus speeds is congestion, which has been blamed on ride-share services. Park Ridge aldermen have agreed to move forward with a study that will begin the process of determining whether bike lanes should replace driving lanes on Busse Highway in a so-called “road diet” The City Council on Jan. 22 voted 4-2 to spend $26,399 on the phase one lane reduction study.

Claim: "Fully inflating tires is ""a step that every expert says would absolutely reduce our oil consumption by 3 to 4 percent."""
Evidence Summary: Nearly 90 percent of new U.S. oil and gas drilling through 2050 is expected to depend on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. Continued extraction in the Permian Basin alone would use up 10 percent of the emissions that remain in the entire world’s carbon budget to keep warming within 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit. Of the projected 120 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide, 80 billion tons would come from oil production. The other 40 billion are pegged to the production of natural gas, which the industry has long touted as a “bridge fuel”

Claim: "If Buehler were elected, our vote-by-mail system would be at risk."
Evidence Summary: The election is on Feb. 26. Many faced problems in the voting process before, on and after Election Day. Most of the problems voters reported can be solved with simple, commonsense reforms. The most widespread problem we saw was the most predictable one: technology and voting machine failures.“There is too much at stake to take that gamble. If we are going to maintain a two-party system, the mandate needs to be a clear one,’’ Ertel said.

Claim: Lindsey Graham endorsed Charlie Crist for U.S. Senate.
Evidence Summary: U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham gathered senators for last-ditch attempt to end shutdown. Democrats were not invited to participate in the meeting, which largely comprised of centrist Republicans. Graham said he will urge Trump to sign a measure reopening the entire federal government if House Speaker Nancy Pelosi agrees to take up a bipartisan Senate bill. “Give us about three weeks to see if we can work this out," said Graham, a Republican from Seneca. ‘They got to him, he is compromised!’ tweeted Rep. Ilhan Omar, a freshman lawmaker and close ally of Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y.

Claim: "Since I took office in January 2011, we have created 11,100 Rhode Island-based jobs."
Evidence Summary: The US economy added 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The US has now added jobs for 99 consecutive months – the longest streak of job creation since records began. Numbers for November and October were also revised up by a total of 58,000. The figures were cheered by president Donald Trump. “GREAT JOBS NUMBERS JUST ANNOUNCED!” he wrote on Twitter.

Claim: "Over the next two years, this $1.8 billion deficit will cost individual Wisconsinites $300 each, or $1,200 for families of four."
Evidence Summary: Illinois has a $7.4 billion pile of unpaid bills. Rebuilding roads and bridges will cost money. Payments for state worker and teacher retirements keeps going up. A big increase in funding for the embattled Indiana Department of Child Services and a jump in Medicaid expenses are projected to consume nearly the entire increase. If legislators give DCS and Medicaid their full requests, that leaves only $35 million in new tax revenue for all other state needs in the first year of the next two-year budget.

Claim: "A bipartisan payroll tax cut championed by the White House has meant that the average family has an extra $1,000 in their pocket this year."
Evidence Summary: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations, says Julian Zelizer. The new law provides only marginal or no benefits for average Americans and households of color, he says. Zelizer: $200 billion in benefits from the new law, out of a total of $275 billion, goes to the top 20 percent of households. Instead of providing higher wages, many companies used the money to repurchase shares, which reached a record $1 trillion last year.

Claim: "According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), about 120 Americans on average die from a drug overdose every day. Overall, drug overdose deaths now outnumber deaths from firearms."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. is battling an ever-worsening epidemic of deaths from opioid drugs. Last year, the government reported more than 70,000 Americans died from drug overdoses. By far the biggest cause was opioid drugs, especially synthetic opioids such as fentanyl. Most of those who die from overdoses first used opioids with a legitimate prescription from a doctor. The National Safety Council recommends increasing access to addiction treatment and making naloxone, a drug that can reverse an opioid overdose, more readily available.

Claim: "Although Democrats represent only 10 of Florida's 25 districts, their districts received 60 percent of the stimulus funds."
Evidence Summary: Democrats started organizing Latino voters too late, didn't tailor their message for an increasingly diverse community and ultimately took Latino support for granted, a Florida pollster said. Democrats will lose again in 2020 if they don’t move swiftly to win over Hispanics, the pollster, Eduardo Gamarra, told the group. “We just live in a red state here,” said Alex Sink, a former Democratic state official who once narrowly lost a bid for governor. The suburbs delivered for Dems in 2018. Will the party return the favor?

Claim: "Says that when he was governor of Utah, he worked with the state Legislature to create a flat tax that cut income taxes by 30 percent."
Evidence Summary: Jean Kaczmarek, DuPage County Clerk, is concerned with the new administration’s top priorities, one of which is a progressive income tax. In Illinois, where newly elected Gov. J.B. Pritzker has promised to work to overturn the state constitutional ban on graduated state income tax rates. 76 percent of respondents to a Paul Simon Public Policy Institute poll expressed support for an extra 3-percent tax on income over $1 million, and 72 percent gave a thumbs-up to the idea of graduated income taxes.

Claim: "The health care plan for members of Congress ""is no better than the janitor who cleans their offices."""
Evidence Summary: Andy Slavitt: It's hard to find agreement in Washington, but there's one thing on which both parties can agree: Congress sucks. He says if people don't see Congress willing to make it better and more affordable, they're happy to elect members who will. Slavitt offers members of the new Congress advice as they begin their terms: Listen hard to the message voters sent in the midterms, he says. The very plausible sounding Medicare-for-all idea is "fool's gold," Slavitt says.

Claim: "On most things except witch trials, Virginia will always have been first."
Evidence Summary: “Our motto is, ‘God above all things’”“It has to encompass all parts of the country.” “The people of CA ― folks in Paradise ― should not be victims to partisan bickering’ ““That would not have been possible without the support of the residents of Harris County." “There is a struggle over his legacy, with each side wanting to claim him as their own.“ “It’s not just the people of California, it”s the whole country,” he said.

Claim: "Because of union rules, cooks helpers moved into DMV jobs they were not trained for"
Evidence Summary: The Fight for $15 movement has upended the power imbalance in America’s low-wage economy. Unions have historically empowered working people to have a voice on the job and a say in how they’re treated. But the government numbers indicate the long-term headwinds unions still face. The legislation introduced this week is more than just another bill in Congress. It's a marker of how the Fight for £15 movement is changing the way the U.S. economy works.

Claim: "The Great Lakes Compact has a loophole. And the loophole is that while you cannot remove the water in a big transport, you can remove it in containers of 5.7 gallons or less."
Evidence Summary: The city’s wastewater netherworld has its own Chicago-centric measurement system. The pumping-station control room, on a little hillock, is +25, or 25 feet above the lake. The roaring motors that empty McCook after the rain sit at -297, 30 stories below ground. Behind us, the second section of McCook—which will more than double the holding capacity of the Mainstream Tunnel—is being excavated by gigantic mining trucks. The MWRD is now encouraging local projects like rain barrels and green roofs and detention ponds to keep water out of the system.

Claim: "Says U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson wants to put 100,000 troops, including 25,000 Americans, into the area where ISIS is."
Evidence Summary: “It was a joint war, but they left us in the middle of the road,” said Gen. Mazlum Kobane. U.S. troops and Kurdish-led fighters were "brothers in arms" as partners on the ground in the war against ISIS in Syria, he added. On December 19, Trump announced the forthcoming withdrawal of the roughly 2,000 U.s. troops fighting ISIS in Iraq and Syria. The move was resisted by just about everyone around Trump, inside and outside the administration.

Claim: "In July 2010 the government said small businesses -- 60 percent -- will lose their health care, 45 percent of big business and a large percentage of individual health."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. Before the health care law’s major pieces went into effect during 2014, the uninsured rate peaked at 18 percent. But in the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent, not far from today's mark.

Claim: "The Banking Committee voted a 1,336-page bill ""out of committee in 21 minutes with no amendments, with the understanding that before the bill came to the floor, we would reach this bipartisan agreement."""
Evidence Summary: Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Richard Shelby, R-Ala. and McConnell released the 1,301-page bill Monday night. The bill was approved by a 241-190 vote at approximately 10 p.m. ET, with seven Republicans joining Democrats to vote yea. The measure, which the White House has also said will not become law, puts together six of the seven unresolved appropriations bills in one package. "We've wasted the week because our friends can't sit down and split the difference," Rep. Tom Cole said.

Claim: "Says Scott Walker said Labor unions dont deserve to have a national holiday due to their damage to the economy. And the holiday should be replaced by Patriots Day, celebrated every year on 9/11."
Evidence Summary: The president called 50,000 federal employees back to work on Wednesday for no pay. Trump has stretched or upended the truth in several other ways as he makes his case for keeping the government shutdown in order to win border wall funding. Union officials say their members have almost uniformly expressed deep concern about the shutdown, worrying about paying their bills and in some cases even fearing eviction over late rent and mortgage payments. Small, morale-boosting events like these may not rise to the level necessary to force an end to the shutdown. Nevertheless, they demonstrate a craving for the kind of solidarity that might begin to tip the balance in our favor.

Claim: "Every family health insurance policy has ""a $900 hidden tax"" to subsidize health care costs of the uninsured."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested ingovernment-run health programs.

Claim: "In her campaign for president, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million in contributions from Wall Street and hedge funds."
Evidence Summary: Kirsten Gillibrand and other potential 2020 Dem candidates who’ve gotten big finance-industry donations in the past have spent the last two years endorsing as many ambitious, leftist policy ideas as possible. Wall Street, after all, played an important role getting the senators where they are today. Even if she doesn’t take their contributions, she’s signaling that she's just playing politics with populist rhetoric. That will allow capitalists to focus their attention on candidates such as Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren.

Claim: Federal law adopted under Tommy Thompsons watch prohibits the government from negotiating for better prices on prescription drugs for senior citizens
Evidence Summary: The Trump administration would like to move forward on a pilot program to tie pricing for certain costly Medicare drugs to what other countries pay. But even before the regulation has been formally proposed, big pharma has launched an all-out assault. The administration has also proposed allowing Medicare to restrict what drugs would be covered by health plans that negotiate prices on behalf of the 45 million seniors who participate in the Medicare Part D program. Massachusetts recently applied to the federal government for permission to limit the number of drugs its Medicaid program covers, but its request was denied.

Claim: "Jeff Greene ""is the king of the undercover Credit Default Swap that brought about the destruction of our economy that we have right now."""
Evidence Summary: Microsoft pledges $500M to tackle Seattle housing crisis. Morgan Stanley says fourth-quarter profit totaled $1.53 billion, more than double from the year-ago quarter. The decision by the Serious Fraud Office to charge John Varley, Roger Jenkins, Tom Kalaris and Richard Boath with conspiracy to commit fraud, was highly political. It is the only time in the UK that any senior bank executive has been criminally prosecuted as a result of what happened during the 2008 financial crisis. The executives who ran those banks have almost universally kept, not only their liberty, but their money, their property and their pensions.

Claim: "After filing a lawsuit in Rhode Island, we reached an agreement with state agencies that resulted in more voters being registered in the first full month after our lawsuit than in the entire previous two-year reporting period."
Evidence Summary: Democrats who this month took control of the U.S. House said they wouldn’t seat Harris without an investigation into the allegations. Lawyers for McCready and the state elections board wanted the lawsuit dismissed and for the incoming elections board to ensure a completed investigation. Plaintiffs are asking for an independent monitor to ensure state health and environmental departments are complying with court orders. They’re also seeking the establishment of a fund for 100,000 people affected by the crisis. “There’s three spots up for election and three incumbents,” he said. � “Are they scared of me?”

Claim: Foreign Trade Zones allow U.S. land to be inhabited by Chinese communists -- communists straight from China! They are to set up little towns and live here.
Evidence Summary: More than $400 million has been paid out in investor-state attacks against water policies, toxic spans, timber rules, transportation policies, energy policies. Carrie Lam said any diminution in the traditional rules could lead to rising political tensions around the world. Worries over the future of the rules governing global trade have been stoked over the past couple of years, certainly since the election of U.S. President Donald Trump. The investor- state system that's in NAFTA has been since embedded in other agreements.

Claim: "Two million new jobs have been created, in California since 2011."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The just-ended year saw 2.4 million new jobs created. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "Replacing 100,000 old toilets with water-efficient models has saved 2.4 million gallons of water every day."
Evidence Summary: The federal government is the city's largest water customer. Chicago sewers were emptying into the river 100 days a year, overwhelmed by as little as a third of an inch of rain. Microsoft founder Bill Gates has issued more than $200 million in grants to come up with a low-cost, low-tech toilet suitable for those without plumbing or electricity. Gates is convinced that poop can pay, predicting that low- cost toilets will grow into a $6 billion-a-year market by 2030.

Claim: [Georgia] Republicans have mismanaged unemployment benefits.
Evidence Summary: Washington Gov. Jay Inslee says his state is trying to "help these hard working people with unemployment compensation" President Donald Trump has refused to sign any appropriations bill that does not include $5.7 billion for a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence.

Claim: We would be just like North Carolina with HB2-like (transgender bathroom) legislation. It actually passed our chamber and I vetoed it.
Evidence Summary: New Mexico joined a growing number of states that have introduced legislation to ban gay and transgender panic defenses. In Virginia, nondiscrimination legislation, which enjoys bipartisan support, may come up for a vote in the House of Delegates this year. In South Dakota this week, the State Senate introduced Bill 49, which would affect transgender athletes’ ability to participate in high school sports. Two women have been charged with sexual battery and second-degree kidnapping in connection with the incident which allegedly took place on Dec. 9 at a North Carolina bar.

Claim: "The Interior Department has only 30 days to review an exploration plan submitted by an oil company. That leaves no time for the appropriate environmental review. The result is, they are continually waived."
Evidence Summary: A federal judge has barred the Interior Department from moving forward with its offshore drilling plans until the federal government reopens. Despite the shutdown directive, the interior department has continued processing oil drilling permits and applications. It has also moved forward with a controversial plan to increase drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

Claim: Says because of Hurricane Sandy in Atlantic City much of that boardwalk no longer exists -- just the pillars where the boardwalk used to be.
Evidence Summary: Councillors warned although beach access would be maintained where possible, there may be times when it would be restricted on safety grounds. Extra material will be brought in to create a rock structure under the sand at East Beach where a new boardwalk will also be built. The Environment Agency has previously said East Beach was at risk of being "significantly lost" due to flooding. At Park Dean caravan park, a steel-sheet piled wall will be built on the side of an embankment to give extra protection.

Claim: "Says the fertilizer plant that exploded in West, Texas,had not been inspected by the state of Texas since 2006."
Evidence Summary: A ruptured gas pipeline in the Mexican state of Hidalgo exploded on Friday night. Video footage showed dozens of residents gathered to collect spilled fuel. The leak was from an illegal tap drilled by fuel thieves, according to state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos, or Pemex. But despite the scope of the blaze, it took a phone call from Gerald Buhrz to alert local authorities to the possibility of water contamination, an official says.. The two-week-old shutdown has halted one of the federal government’s most important public health activities.

Claim: Says Mitt Romney called the Arizona law a model for the nation.
Evidence Summary: Incoming Utah senator Mitt Romney challenged President Trump's character in an op-ed in the Washington Post. Romney said he would support the president in policies he thought were in the best interests of Utah or the US but speak out against actions "that are divisive, racist, sexist, anti-immigrant, dishonest or destructive to democratic institutions" The former Massachusetts governor has been prominent in national life for a quarter-century, and rarely during that time have people who know Romney raised their voices to say that his life is different than his Boy Scout image.

Claim: "Contrary to media reports, Georgias gas tax change led to no price increase at the pump."
Evidence Summary: Gas prices vary across the country — they're cheaper in the South and pricier in the West. Gas price campaigners argue that, even though pump prices have fallen over the last six months, they have not fallen as fast as wholesale costs. About half of the price of a gallon of gas is driven by the crude oil cost, while the rest is tied to the cost of refining, distribution, marketing and taxes. And states with high taxes, like California, consistently post higher prices at the pump.

Claim: On applying prosecutorial discretion to immigration cases.
Evidence Summary: Lawyers for the plaintiffs said Mr. Ross’s decision was not based on the merits, but was clearly tailored to his personal views. The Trump administration shuffled judges to the border in an attempt to rush through the cases of Central American families that have shown up in larger numbers in recent years. In Charlotte, North Carolina some judges have refused to hear testimony from female asylum seekers from Central America, citing an now-overturned policy statement from former Attorney General Jeff Sessions. The Department of Justice has "increased pressures on judges to churn out cases at lightning speeds," an immigration lawyer said.

Claim: "Says Hillary Clinton has pledged amnesty in her first 100 days, and her plan will provide Obamacare, Social Security, and Medicare for illegal immigrants, breaking the federal budget."
Evidence Summary: “100 miles of border wall in exchange for amnestying millions of illegals. We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” Coulter tweeted. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) dismissed Trump’s DACA offer as a “non-starter.” Earlier this month Coulter told Lou Dobbs on Fox Business that she would rather deport Dreamers than MS-13 gang members. "For President Trump to hold hostage public servants, it's wrong," she said.

Claim: "Its actually easier for the United States to get flight manifests from E.U. nations than it is for E.U. nations to get them from their own neighbors, thanks to an agreement the U.S. negotiated when I was secretary of state."
Evidence Summary: "I have an open mind on how we do it. It is not the means that matter, but the ends," he said. Microsoft President Brad Smith: "Since World War II, the U.S. government has played a leadership role" "I don’t know if you should use people’s lives to make a point," he added. "I think there are other ways to get negotiations. Shows America doesn”t have its act together," Smith said.

Claim: "Under Barack Obama, the fewest number of adults are working since Jimmy Carters presidency."
Evidence Summary: As an African-American who cares about closing income gaps between advantaged and disadvantaged groups, I appreciated the shoutout. History shows the public tends to turn against immigrants at times of high unemployment, quite the opposite of the currently vigorous national employment rates. Trump’s highlighting unemployed black and Hispanic workers as victims of illegal immigration unfortunately suggests a new version of an old sneaky divide-and-conquer political tactic. Turn one disadvantaged group against another through half-truths and stereotypes, he says.

Claim: "I'm proud of the fact that I've raised more money from small donors than anybody else, and that we're getting $25, $50, $100 donations, and we've done very well doing it that way."
Evidence Summary: "I think in this country right now, that there are a lot of people who don't feel like front-runners. And I'm going to go speak to them in this campaign," he says. "Ultimately what 2020 is going to be about is not my family but the tens of millions of families across this country who just want a level playing field" "I'm not a front-runner, but nobody who grew up here in these neighborhoods, including myself, has ever been aFront-runner"

Claim: "Says he helped bring Uline company to Kenosha area, creating 800 local jobs."
Evidence Summary: Powell-Filler joined PADS Lake County in 2013 when it was based in North Chicago. He will be taking over as executive director at the University Center of Lake County. He has experience as an adjunct professor at Elmhurst College, teaching political science. "We are a family," Marsh added. Other jobs are coming to that part of Ohio. A retail distribution center will hire about 1,000, but likely for lower pay, Marsh said. The village not only has to listen to its business owners, but also seek to bring in high-quality employment opportunities, he said.

Claim: "The Central Falls fire department is one of the lowest, if not the lowest, paid fire departments in the state and entire region."
Evidence Summary: Councilman Anthony Higgs, D-3rd, said police and fire is his No. 1 priority. Village officials have cited pension obligations, as well as workers’ compensation and health care costs, among the reasons why outsourcing the department was necessary. “We were fired under false pretenses, (with officials) stating they couldn’t afford the IMRF pension obligation, when in fact, we weren”t even eligible for one after 2014,” former firefighter Martin Rita said.

Claim: "Says Ronald Reagan understood repeatedly that when the deficit started to get out of control, that for him to make a deal he would have to propose both spending cuts and tax increases."
Evidence Summary: Gingrich's analogy touched off a flurry of indignation, scorn and contempt from the right. Walker added with this salvo on Twitter: ‘Imagine if you did chores for your grandma and she gave you $10. When you got home, your parents took $7 from you. Even 5th graders get it.’ Ocasio-Cortez sprang into action, schooling the recently ousted governor that his analogy was completely wrong and proving that her Twitter game remains supreme.

Claim: "Since President Obama took office in January 2009, the federal government has issued more than 468,500 pages of regulations."
Evidence Summary: The courts have blocked Trump administration policies on an array of issues. Trump boasted about his efforts to cut red tape this month in a speech to the American Farm Bureau Federation. The president likes to count the number of regulatory rollbacks initiated by his administration, sometimes falsely inflating the figures. But an unsettling lesson of the Trump presidency is that post-truth politics can be highly effective, especially when it comes to shoring up a political base. The Washington Post has listed more than 7,000 presidential falsehoods.

Claim: "People buy more items during Georgias sales-tax holidays, boosting economic activity."
Evidence Summary: The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers’ claims jumped. The partial shutdown of the U.S. government has begun to make it harder to assess the health of the economy by delaying or distorting key reports. The retail sales report provides a snapshot of consumer spending, which fuels more than two-thirds of theeconomy. The next report on the economy’s overall growth, set for Jan. 30, won’t be released if the shutdown remains in effect.

Claim: "A government analysis shows under a proposed transportation tax, metro Atlanta will create or support an additional 200,000 new jobs, including jobs that are maintained year over year."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent. MIT's David Autor gave the prestigious Richard T. Ely lecture at the annual meeting of American economists in Atlanta. Autor’s density categories melt the distinctions between San Francisco and Milwaukee, between Silicon Valley and Orlando, and between ski towns and coal country.

Claim: "McCain's ""plan for the economy is to extend George Bush's tax cuts for billionaires and give a $100-billion additional corporate tax cut."""
Evidence Summary: Freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy. What has been lost in the dust-up is that the wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, took us in exactly the wrong direction, Carlson says. Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda that could become a reality after 2020.

Claim: "In the Senate version of the health reform bill, ""Every enrollee in the Office of Personnel Management enrolled plan, every enrollee has to pay a minimum of $1 per month towards reproductive rights, which includes abortion."""
Evidence Summary: The administration is close to finalizing changes to the federal grant program that supports family planning services to low-income women. The proposed changes would effectively disqualify Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers from participating. Another change in the works would require insurance companies that offer plans through the health exchanges covered by the Affordable Care Act to bill separately the portion of a premium that covers most abortion services. A final rule is expected any day that would cut off a significant part of Planned Parenthood’s federal funding — not from Medicaid but from the Title X Family Planning Program.

Claim: "The average person will pay $6,000 more a year under Rep. Paul Ryans Medicare proposal."
Evidence Summary: One-third of Senate Democrats and more than half of House Democrats have endorsed Medicare-for-all proposals. Such proposals would lead to more government involvement in health care, and bring the U.S. a step closer to mostly socialized systems such as the British National Health Service. The proposal is driven by frustration with the current private insurance system, which remains costly on the individual market despite ObamaCare’s goals. But Medicare- for-all is estimated to cost tens of trillions of dollars over a decade.

Claim: "Barack Obama's middle name is Mohammed and he's a ""covert"" Muslim."
Evidence Summary: The speech was a gross distortion of what Obama said a decade ago and a comically unrecognizable description of his own administration’s policies. The speech went after Obama, while never mentioning his name, from nearly the outset. As for Tlaib – a former state representative, lawyer and civic activist – her using the Koran is not intended to make a religious point, but a legal one. “My faith has centered me. The prophet Mohammed was always talking about freedom and justice,” she said.

Claim: "Under the new health care law, the elderly will be denied care when they have ""passed the age limit for treatment."""
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom wants to allow illegal immigrants to stay on Medi-Cal rolls until they are 26. A federal judge recently ruled the individual mandate no longer was a constitutional exercise of Congress' taxing power. Newsom said he would reimpose it in order to subsidize state health care. The rule would not be retroactive, meaning it wouldn’t take into account past use of public benefits like Medicaid, legal experts say. It could force patients to choose between health care and their chance at a green card, one expert says.

Claim: "Barack Obama ""openly supported (opposition leader) Raila Odinga during his visit to Africa in 2006."""
Evidence Summary: Zimbabwe Catholic Bishops' Conference last week lamented the government's "intolerant handling of dissent" South Africa is now considering a bailout for Zimbabwe "as long as it is affordable for our side," Foreign Minister Lindiwe Sisulu said. Zimbabwe's turmoil again brought questions about tensions between Mnangagwa and the man he had left in charge, hard-line former military commander and Vice President Constantino Chiwenga, who led the military effort to oust Mugabe.

Claim: "The HOPE scholarship has helped turn our University System into one of the best in the Southeast, with two institutions ranked in the top 20 of public universities in the country."
Evidence Summary: Arts and humanities can be overlooked in academia and their utility questioned. Such disciplines increasingly face the chopping block at institutions looking to cut costs. Such departments also command little support from philanthropy, which is a critical source of funding for public and private universities. “A world without the arts and humanities is not a world we want to live in,” said Barbara Wilson, the university’s executive vice president and vice president for academic affairs.“We think about STEM and we think about business, but we need to be thinking about these fields, as well,’ Wilson said.

Claim: "Says in his years as a Texas legislator, we passed three pay increases for teachers and provided them with health insurance."
Evidence Summary: Republican leaders have talked about the importance of finding ways to address Indiana’s lagging teacher salaries. The extra money would amount to about 1 percent more money to school districts. The governor last week proposed just a 2 percent funding increase for public schools each of the next two years. In a statement, House Speaker Brian Bosma, R-Indianapolis, praised Holcomb's plan “to put more dollars into teachers’ pockets.’ “We need to combat the crisis caused by a shortage of teachers by making the profession more enticing to future educators,” said Sen. Eddie Melton, D-Gary.

Claim: "Says since Australia passed tough gun laws, homicides by firearm have declined almost 60 percent."
Evidence Summary: Nina Vinik’s commentary distorted a few facts, says Yvonne Smith. While firearms were involved in nearly 40,000 deaths, 60 percent were suicides, she says. Smith: There is virtually no evidence to support the idea that expanding access to firearms increases individual safety and security. She says states with right-to-carry laws experienced 13 to 15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates than states with no such laws in recent years. It is possible that there are just higher rates of depression and suicidal ideation in a gun household, he says.

Claim: "Under Obama, families have lost over $4,000 a year in income."
Evidence Summary: African-Americans are more likely than other racial or ethnic groups to work for the federal government. 380,000 American families have a member sitting at home without a paycheck. "How can you adjust when you don't have any money to pay bills for food?" one woman said. "Economic jitters and concerns about the direction of the country are emerging, including among Trump supporters," says Democratic pollster Chris Anderson. "The federal shutdown could cast a long political shadow if it is remembered as ushering in an economic downturn," Anderson says.

Claim: "As secretary of state, (Hillary Clinton) worked hard to get strong sanctions against Irans nuclear program and got Russia and China to support them."
Evidence Summary: In 2016, she alarmed fellow Democrats when she met with Donald Trump during his transition to president. She also took a secret trip to Syria and met with President Bashar Assad, who has been accused of war crimes and genocide. She said she doesn’t regret the trip and considers it important to meet with adversaries if “you are serious about pursuing peace” In the speech entitled "A Force for Good: America's Reinvigorated Role in the Middle East," Pompeo extolled the Trump administration's actions.

Claim: "Under the Romney/Ryan budget, interest rates on federal student loans would be allowed to double."
Evidence Summary: In 2013, President Obama nearly cut undergraduate student loan interest rates in half by tying them to the financial markets. Aggregate subsidized Stafford loan limits for undergraduate dependents jumped from $17,250 in 1987 to $23,000 today. Undergraduates who are independent from their parents or whose parents don’t qualify for federal loans can borrow up to $57,000 in federal loans to fund their education. Private loans not subject to government restrictions only add to this potential burden."This is money that is set to be spent anyway — paychecks, benefit checks, outlays to contractors"

Claim: "Says Ive been proven right about Hillary Clintons radical call for open borders, meaning anyone in the world can enter the United States without any limit at all."
Evidence Summary: Sanders said terrorists enter the U.S. “by air, it’s by land, it's by sea” and that the southern border is the country's “most vulnerable point of entry” Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez accused Trump of “holding the paychecks of everyday Americans hostage” during the partial government shutdown in order to fulfill what she called a “campaign fantasy” “The women and children on the border are not a security threat, they’re a humanitarian challenge,” Pelosi said.

Claim: "When the Affordable Care Act was signed, 17 million American children had a pre-existing condition and were uninsurable."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs.

Claim: "Preventive care saves money, for families, for businesses, for government, for everybody."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. That’s 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. We’re deeply invested in the myth that medicine has drastically increased the human lifespan and will continue to do so.“But there are a few very simple ways that everyone can make healthier choices.”“If the problem is concentrated in a relatively small set of people, then thinking about the interventions that would be most effective for those people is going to take us a lot farther"

Claim: "Gov. (Pat) McCrory took $500,000 directly out of the disaster relief fund. And you know what its for? House Bill 2."
Evidence Summary: The claim, which was already debunked and admonished the last time he made it in November, was also met with confusion. With no explanation or official comment issued, it remains unclear if the president plans to take back funds already allocated for recovery – or if he will even be able to. More than $48m has already been approved in individual assistance and upwards of $108m in federal grants and loans, and that’s likely a fraction of the cost, as relief efforts typically stretch on for years.

Claim: "In Florida, its not illegal for an immediate family member of state officials to prosper from legislation supported by a spouse."
Evidence Summary: House Bill 235 is similar to others filed in 10 other states, but none of them have made it past governors, legislatures or courts. Florida's Democratic Party chair Terrie Rizzo said in a statement Jan. 16, "We will fight to see that this legislation never becomes law in Florida" A request for comment from Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis was not immediately returned. "The easy part is doing the time. The hard part is getting out and staying out and being able to navigate all these obstacles that are thrown at you," David Ayala said.

Claim: "15 years ago, cancer drugs cost an average of $10,000 a year. Now its $10,000 a month."
Evidence Summary: Drugmakers say they periodically need to raise U.S. list prices of their medications to help offset steep rebates they must offer to get them covered by insurance. Generic oral drugs had the smallest price increases, with a 4.4 percent increase each year. Costs for specialty medications, such as those for hepatitis C, rose 13 times faster than inflation, according to the study. Americans spent $535 billion on prescription drugs last year, an increase of 50 percent since 2010, one estimate says.

Claim: "For every dollar we put in unemployment, it pays back about $1.60."
Evidence Summary: Pinnetti has been unable to perform his $22-an-hour job since the shutdown began. "It's going to be rough — I'm digging deep into my savings right now," says Pinnetti. "And I’m sure that the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments. People understand exactly what’s going on. Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many of thosePeople agree 100 percent with what I”m doing," he says.

Claim: "Since 1990, in inflation-adjusted dollars, per-student funding of the (Florida) state university system from general revenue has dropped by about $4,000."
Evidence Summary: Illinois IBHE officials talk wistfully — and a little too much — about the generous state funding they received in 2002. They call that higher ed’s ‘benchmark year’ — as if lawmakers have a way-back machine and billions in spare cash lying around. The plan was to boost student enrollment and tighten the budget for 2018-19, it stated, plus pursue more funding sources, including grants. The nation has a 1.5 trillion-dollar debt in federal student-loans which are held by about 45 million borrowers.

Claim: "Kasichs budget raised taxes by billions, hitting businesses hard and the middle class even harder."
Evidence Summary: As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. The uncomfortable truth for the bill’s supporters is that the tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years — as many economists believe it will — the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more.“We can’t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending.”

Claim: "Romney used to favor gun control, and said he didn't want to go back to Reagan-Bush."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney tried to put himself on the broad Trump-suspicious track, but anyone who wants to lead the Republican party can’t pretend we live in 2005. Long before Trump entered politics, Romney had clearly established his propensity for flip-flopping. In his first run for public office against then-Sen. Ted Kennedy, Romney declared himself a strong supporter of abortion rights. In 2012, facing a much different electorate, Romney promptly abandoned that stance and called for defunding Planned Parenthood to win the evangelical-heavy Republican presidential primaries.

Claim: ""
Evidence Summary: "That would not have been possible without the support of the residents of Harris County," he says. "It wasn't a free for all," he adds. "Our troops are coming out." "I wouldn't wish that on nobody," says the mayor. "I just wanted him to see that’s what we're here for." "We're here to help. We're not here to hurt anybody," says his wife. "We just want to help each other out," she says. “I just want him to know that.”

Claim: The administration was kicking and screaming all the way with these sanctions being put in place (on Iran).
Evidence Summary: The sanctions are back because President Trump pulled out of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal and re-imposed them in a bid to get Tehran to negotiate a tougher agreement. The administration first delayed putting sanctions on the companies into effect and then announced last month it would lift them entirely. European governments and American manufacturers have urged the Senate not to reimpose the sanctions, which have reportedly caused the price of the commodity to rise. Elnaz says the sanctions are a big part of the problem. But her own government is also partly responsible.

Claim: "Texas population is projected to double in the next 50 years or so, but our basic amount of water will remain about where it is now."
Evidence Summary: The addition of 379,128 to Texas marked a growth rate of 1.3 percent. Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. “We are seeing a steady influx of people coming from states, including New York and California, coming for jobs and for changes in the tax code,” says Cyndi Bell, incoming president of Williamson County Association of Realtors.“Growth is going to come to an end, either suddenly or in a controlled way.”

Claim: "Palin had ""executive experience"" in the PTA."
Evidence Summary: In interviews earlier this month coinciding with the release of her memoir, Harris explained that she was empowered at a young age with the disposition to take personal responsibility to address the hardships she encountered. "I was raised that, when you see a problem, you don't complain about it, you go and do something about it," she said on "Good Morning America" on Jan. 8. On Monday, Harris said she believed the American people were looking for a commander in chief with "leadership skills, experience and integrity," who will "fight on their behalf"

Claim: "Over the last six months, President Barack Obama has golfed 10 times and held 106 fundraisers, but his jobs council has never met."
Evidence Summary: A federal judge on Tuesday blocked the administration from asking about citizenship on the census,but the ruling is expected to be appealed. The Supreme Court is set to hear oral arguments next month. Trump’s reliance on acting officials and former lobbyists could lead to a litany of problems. The president also boasted that his meetings with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un had likely prevented a “big fat war in Asia” He dismissed the recent downturn in the stock market as a ‘glitch’ that would soon right itself.

Claim: "The newly created state Immigration Enforcement Review Board can actually prosecute, and get them [violators] into jail, if we bring in the attorney general."
Evidence Summary: In 1992, Barr pushed a multimillion-dollar plan for new fences and agents along the southern border. He said his proposal was a “steady march in the right direction,” albeit, not a ‘silver bullet’ fix. In 2018, CBP only encountered six immigrants at ports of entry on the U.S-Mexico border in the first half of fiscal year 2018 who were known or suspected terrorists. However, we cannot forget that immigration reform is a legitimate and concerning issue that needs to be addressed by lawmakers.

Claim: "Wisconsins concealed-carry permit rules demand more proof than other states that safety training requirements are met, rendering all existing (training) certificates insufficient as part of the permit application"
Evidence Summary: Under the new law, it would be illegal for retailers to sell guns without being certified by the state. To qualify, stores first must be licensed by the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Shop owners would have to install surveillance equipment, maintain an electronic inventory, establish anti-theft measures and require employees to undergo annual training. A certification would cost retailers a maximum of $1,500, and the regulations would apply to small businesses as well as big-box retailers.

Claim: "Even though men comprise 49% of the population, they hold 80% of the lawmaking power in the Legislature (144 of 181 seats)."
Evidence Summary: The number of women in the House of Representatives rose to 102 last year, from 84 in 2017. In the U.S. Senate, the number rose to 25, from 21. That brings their percentage in Congress to just under 24 percent, or 127 of 535 members. Still, women still do not represent 51 percent of elected leaders in this country, she said. "Imagine just for a moment what America would look like if it did. Imagine what would be possible" The Australian parliament has 12 of its 74 lower house seats held by women.

Claim: Says some Austin school district classrooms lack electrical outlets.
Evidence Summary: The Los Angeles public school population is one of the most vulnerable in the country. California's public school funding per student lags behind the national average and way behind similar states like New York. "Is there not a crisis here with classrooms as large as 50 students?" Dokoupil asked Los Angeles Unified School District superintendent Austin Beutner. "We are more convinced than ever that the district won't move without a strike," United Teachers Los Angeles president Alex Caputo-Pearl said.

Claim: "Not a single banker, a CEO from Wall Street, anyone from corporate America nobody, (there was) not one arrest of any of these people who brought down the economy in 2008."
Evidence Summary: "It is about money in politics, it's about the influence of money," Sorkin says. The West Wing writer argues that Glass-Steagall played a pivotal role in the financial crisis of the 1980s and 1990s. "The government really needs to get together and work this out," he says. "I have the biggest proposal since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington, you think?" he asks. "It's not just the people who aren't getting paychecks, but also the businesses that are suffering," he adds. "We need to make sure that the economy doesn't suffer as a result of this shutdown."

Claim: "Since 2008, we have cut 5,000 positions from Virginia public schools."
Evidence Summary: Waukegan District 60 had 89 unfilled positions as of Oct. 1, about 30 of which were teaching positions. The district’s retention rate — a state metric that looks at the number of teachers who return to the same school, not just the same district over three years — was 78 percent last school year. Virginia Educators United was planning to take a day off from teaching and march in the state capital. "We haven’t brought school funding back up to adequate levels" seen before the Great Recession.

Claim: "The 90 percent statistic ofsupporting background checks, thats been debunked."
Evidence Summary: 38% of Scottish men and 9% of women are said to have at least one criminal conviction. Campaigners want employers to drop criminal record declarations from job application forms. More than 115 employers across the UK have already agreed to do so. The Civil Service announced in 2016 that it would not ask for details of criminal convictions at the initial recruitment stage, unless the job had specific security requirements. Dr Weaver said it would be better for employers to ask about convictions at a later stage in the recruitment process. Her findings have been published in a paper for the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice.

Claim: "Says Marco Rubio said we should be considering internment of Muslims, and maybe we should close down cafes and diners where Muslims gather and in fact compared them to the Nazi party."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) has openly broadcast his racist and xenophobic views without consequence from the Republican leaders. In September of last year, King met in Austria with members of a political party founded by a former Nazi SS officer. In October, King endorsed a white nationalist to be mayor of Toronto. In November, The Weekly Standard published an audio recording of King referring to immigrants as “dirt” on multiple occasions. “This sort of hateful anti-Muslim rhetoric doesn't happen in a vacuum - this President embraced it and Republicans have happily gone along with it," Rep. Rashida Tlaib said.

Claim: "A recent Obama executive order could lead to a number of investigations by Interpol in the United States, potentially aimed at American officials."
Evidence Summary: The FBI opened a counterintelligence investigation into the president of the United States for being a Russian asset. The public should understand the painstaking internal deliberations that lead to the investigation, and how it could establish obstruction of justice charges against Donald Trump. The authority of the FBI to conduct criminal investigations and, with United States attorneys, to prosecute lawbreakers in our nation’s federal courts is well known. But the FBI's role as the leading “counterintelligence” agency on U.S. soil is less well understood.

Claim: "If you are driving on average in America this summer, you'll save according to Department of Energy figures about $70."
Evidence Summary: U.S. increased its carbon dioxide emissions in 2018, and a large part of the reason was one normally cited as a bonus — substantial economic growth. A booming American economy meant increased industrial production, more truck and air travel and more offices and other workplaces to heat. This created the second-largest annual increase in the key greenhouse gas emissions in more than two decades, according to new estimates from the Rhodium Group. The fall is likely to be partly a result of higher petrol prices, which surged from under 105p at the end of December 2015 to about 120p in 2017.

Claim: "Says We do about 300 investigations a year into housing discrimination and in recent years have put about $150,000 of damages into the pockets of individuals who have been treated unfairly."
Evidence Summary: A spokeswoman for the mayor said Nycha was seeking to dismiss the two managers accused of misconduct in the report. But critics said the findings were emblematic of widespread systemic failure at the housing agency and insufficient oversight of the city’s 325 housing projects where 400,000 people live. The report described a hostile workplace where two managers, Brianne Pawson and Wallace Vereen, bullied and threatened employees. The effects of “fair housing” have been imperceptible in large swaths of the country, where poor and working-class African Americans live in racially segregated enclaves.

Claim: "Mitt Romney opposed the gun lobby, even Ronald Reagan."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney was happy to accept Trump’s endorsements during his presidential run in 2012 and in his race for the Senate last year. In between those two endorsements, Romney blasted Trump as “a phony, a fraud” Yet just as soon as Trump won the presidency, Romney opportunistically changed his tune, prostrating himself before the president-elect in a desperate attempt to be named his new secretary of state. Trump was in favor of abortion rights before he opposed them. In 2012, facing a much different electorate, Romney promptly abandoned that stance and called for defunding Planned Parenthood to win the evangelical-heavy Republican presidential primaries.

Claim: I don't describe your plan as amnesty in my ad. I don't call it amnesty.
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump tweeted that amnesty was not part of his offer. He said it was a three-year extension of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) He also said there would be no big push to remove the 11,000,000 people who are here illegally. But conservative writer Ann Coulter said it would be a 'bad bargain' for the U.S. to give up amnesty for a promise of border wall funding. The partial government shutdown has put the question on the nation’s nose.

Claim: This is the first time in Texas history -- and only the fourth time in United States history -- that two women are running for the top spots.
Evidence Summary: The race is already thought to be record-breaking, with four women candidates running national campaigns. A woman has yet to be elected president or vice president. If chosen by the Democrats, Elizabeth Warren would be the second woman nominated by a major party to run for president – but she would be only the 32nd woman nomination by a party for a White House bid. The historic number of female candidates vying for the presidency marks a turning point for U.S. presidential politics and, of course, for women.

Claim: "The oddest thing is he doesn't want to do for America what he did for Massachusetts. He did mandate health care for Massachusetts, which is HillaryCare, and he doesn't want to do that for America."
Evidence Summary: In all his campaigns Romney has emphasized his record of professional achievement and business success more than his ideological consistency. Romney has been similarly itinerant in his language on Trump. He accepted the New Yorker’s endorsement in 2012. Then in 2016 he said on Twitter, “I would NOT have accepted his endorsement” if Trump said then, � “the things he says today about the KKK, Muslims, Mexicans, disabled” He called him “a phony, a fraud.” Then, after Trump’S election, Romney praised his “message of inclusion” and signaled that he might be willing to serve as Trump's secretary of state.

Claim: "What I have done -- and this is unprecedented ... is Ive said to each agency ... look at regulations that are already on the books and if they dont make sense, lets get rid of them."
Evidence Summary: "There is no one who can deny the effectiveness of that," he says. "I applaud the president for re-evaluating what he's doing" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing when you look at who is representing us," he adds. "Not just the people who aren’t getting paychecks but also the businesses being hamstrung by this shutdown"

Claim: "When the mayor of Providences brother wrote over 100 grand in bad checks to the city, Joe Fernandez didnt have the guts to prosecute him. He let him off the hook."
Evidence Summary: Ald. Ed Burke is accused of abusing his role as a public servant to line his pockets. The charges suggest he was terribly sloppy. At the first forum between the longtime alderman and his challengers, the moderator did not ask about the federal corruption charge that has beset Burke’s campaign for a 13th term. “The Chicago way and the politics that got us here is the first thing that needs to stop,” McCarthy said.“Not to worry, I promise I shall not keep you long,’ Burke said, repeating a line often attributed to the 16th Century English monarch.

Claim: "As Milwaukee County executive, Scott Walker eliminated the waiting list for long-term care for older adults through the Family Care program."
Evidence Summary: "Scott Walker is without a question the most significant governor of Wisconsin in modern times," said Democratic strategist and former state party chairman Mike Tate. Walker signed into law a litany of Republican priorities. He pointed to a fresh deal to save nearly 400 jobs at a Kimberly-Clark Corp. plant near Appleton. But to his detractors, Walker was leaving office just as he came in: bowing to his most partisan interests and worsening the state's partisan divide. "His conduct and that of those like him laid the groundwork for the modern Republican Party led by Donald Trump," Tate said.

Claim: "The Congressional Budget Office most recently came out and analyzed the current (health care) plan and said that it was not only deficit-neutral, but also that over 10 years it would create a $6 billion surplus."
Evidence Summary: Pelosi deputy chief of staff Drew Hammill fired back shortly afterward, tweeting: "A vote AGAINST the Democratic Rules package is a vote to let [Director of the Office of Management and Budget] Mick Mulvaney make across the board cuts" A study released in July by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University said Ocasio-Cortez's proposed 'Medicare for all' solution would increase government health care spending by $32.6 trillion over 10 years. But Medicare-for-all is estimated to cost tens of trillions of dollars over a decade.

Claim: "The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance."
Evidence Summary: The Obama Administration tried to force the Catholic nuns and other religious groups to provide their employees with contraceptives, including abortifacients, in violation of their beliefs. A few months before that, the supposedly progressive Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., suggested that Russell Vought, an evangelical nominee for a position in the Office of Management and Budget, was unfit for public service because of his belief in the Gospel. Sanders’ treatment of Vought makes clear that it’s not only Catholics who should be alarmed by this trend among Democrats and progressives.

Claim: "By the word religion in the First Amendment, the founders meant Christianity."
Evidence Summary: Republican state Sen. Dennis Kruse’s bill seeks to place a poster reading “In God We Trust’ in every public and charter school classroom in Indiana. The bill would also allow public schools to teach creationism and offer a survey course on world religions. Curriculum for the survey course must be “neutral, objective and balanced” and not “promote acceptance of any particular religion,” according to the legislation. In 2013, Kruse pushed a bill that would have required Indiana schools to begin each day by reciting the Lord's Prayer.

Claim: "NFL players are living, on average, longer than the average male."
Evidence Summary: The average career span of professional athletes in most major sports ranges from three to six years. Athletes must travel frequently for work, and while injuries on the field and in training are common, it is accidents during travel that most commonly result in fatalities. A recent analysis looked at how longer American life spans coupled with advances in medicine and public health have shaped the Supreme Court’s bench. These factors have resulted in a “shift toward a longer and slower decline, as opposed to more rapid death”

Claim: "Says an investigative report concluded Ken Cuccinelli should have been prosecuted for disclosure violations, but Virginias law was too weak."
Evidence Summary: The crux of the complaint is that law enforcement should not “turn a blind eye to criminal conduct” But bar disciplinary committees do not deal in policy arguments; they apply ethical rules. The complaint tries to package its objections to Rollins’ promises as violations of particular ethical Rules. As just one example, the NPA asserts that Rollins violated Ethics Rule 3.8(f)(1) That rule forbids prosecutors from making comments outside of a courtroom that would prejudice a particular defendant in a particular case.

Claim: "The Recovery Act saved 60,000 jobs among law enforcement officials, firefighters in the state of Florida, plus another 20,000 educators."
Evidence Summary: The Small Business Administration must continue to work for businesses in the aftermath of natural disasters. After Hurricanes Hermine, Matthew, Irma and Michael ravaged my home state of Florida, the SBA made low-interest disaster loans available to help businesses and homeowners recover. During this Congress, I will work with Administrator McMahon and my colleagues to improve the delivery of this critical assistance and aid for Floridians and disaster victims across the United States. The funds are part of a $5 billion package that HUD allocated to Texas after Harvey hit.

Claim: "Under President Barack Obama, more Americans are in poverty ... than at any time since the Census Bureau began keeping records on it over 50 years ago."
Evidence Summary: There is a sickness in this country that allowed this carbuncular president to swell to the surface, and it calls for more than the Democrats’ signature bloodless, incremental technocracy to fix. The plain fact of the matter is that for a lot of Americans, life simply sucks and isn’t getting better. Our life expectancy has shortened for the second year in a row, the first multiyear drop since 1963. The top 1 percent of Americans haven't controlled this much wealth since the 1920s, after decades of increasingly dramatic stratification.

Claim: "Under Barack Obama and the big government economy, the median wage for women has dropped $733."
Evidence Summary: During the Obama years, as the economy muddled along with economic growth at an anemic 2 percent, good-paying jobs were hard to find. During President Obama’s last six quarters in office, economic growth averaged a near-recessionary low of 1.5 percent. Creating more than a quarter-million new jobs in a single month (let alone hitting that average for three straight) shows that employers continue to have a great deal of confidence in the economy, regardless of the doom-and-gloom narrative professed by so-called "experts"

Claim: Obama has (a) new Christmas tree tax.
Evidence Summary: Pence said the tax return decision was a part of Mr Trump's directive to "mitigate the impact of the shutdown on everyday Americans" Mr Trump had directed Mr Pence and Democrats to meet over the weekend for negotiations. How you dispose of your real tree can make a big difference to its carbon footprint. A real tree that is recycled - for example chipped or composted, or keeps growing - can have negligible or even negative emissions. If you burn your Christmas tree, plant it or have it chipped and composted your carbon footprint can be reduced by up to 80%.

Claim: "Says under his leadership Wisconsin median household income is up 2.7%, while it is down 1.3% nationally under President Obama."
Evidence Summary: Voters say their family is better off than a year ago. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. The city council should rename things in our country named after significant people or historic people or brave people. Let's take their name and throw it in the garbage can and (replace it with) Barack Obama.

Claim: "Says that had E-Verify been in place in Florida when 9/11 terrorists lived here, we might have saved the lives of 3,000 Americans."
Evidence Summary: Wallace showed a clip of Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen stating Friday that “over 3,000 special interest aliens” trying to enter the U.S. from the southern border had been stopped by Border Patrol agents. He also cited State Department reports that found “no credible evidence of any terrorist coming across the border from Mexico” Sanders responded, “We know that roughly nearly 4,000 known or suspected terrorists come into our country illegally, and we know that our most vulnerable point of entry is at our southern border.”

Claim: "For what we spend in just one week in Iraq, 800,000 children could get health insurance for an entire year."
Evidence Summary: Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The U.S. is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. The health care industry heavily markets its own importance and pushes treating illness over preventing it.

Claim: "Her opponent: zero times a judge, zero rulings, zero experience on the bench."
Evidence Summary: After landing a prestigious judicial clerkship, Leon took 10 years out to raise five children to school age. She then practiced public interest law and worked on policy initiatives on behalf of children and indigent criminal defendants. By the time she became a federal judge at the age of 50, she was a fully integrated adult with a breadth and depth of experience. "A related case is not whatever a plaintiff wishes it to be," Leon said. To accept Klayman's argument "would invite precisely the sort of judge shopping that this system is designed to avoid"

Claim: "In 29 states in this country you can still get fired for not just being gay, but if your employer thinks you are gay."
Evidence Summary: The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in 1989 that existing federal civil rights law “does not prohibit discrimination against homosexuals” A 30-year-old 8th Circuit case is currently being challenged in court by LGBTQ legal advocacy group Lambda Legal. Wisconsin, Ohio, Michigan, Kansas and Florida are among 29 states that do not have explicit laws banning employment discrimination based on both sexual orientation and gender identity. The New York State Legislature voted Tuesday to ban so-called gay conversion therapy on minors.

Claim: "Over the last few decades, the income of the top 1 percent grew by more than 275 percent -- to an average of $1.3 million a year."
Evidence Summary: Income per adult was $16,000 in 1980 (adjusted for inflation), and it still is around $ 16,000 today. For the highest 0.1 percent of earners, incomes have grown more than 300 percent; for the top 0.01 percent, incomes has grown by as much as 450 percent. The wealth of billionaires has increased by $900 billion in the last year, or $2.5 billion a day. Men hold 50 percent more of the world’s wealth than women, according to the report.

Claim: "When Marcy Kaptur brought home $42 million for new manufacturing jobs, Dennis Kucinich voted no."
Evidence Summary: “I’m six days into the term, and you already used all your ammo. So enjoy being exhausted for the next two years while we run train on the progressive agenda.” – Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y. “Ohhhh boy,” one woman shouted as the crowd eagerly anticipated the answer from the chair of the Cook County Democratic Party. Only one candidate appeared to waver — Preckwinkle, when it came to the CTA question.

Claim: "New York is the safest big city in the nation, and our crime reductions have been steeper than any other big citys."
Evidence Summary: McCarthy tells voters he’ll go back to using data to target gangs and meet with families affected by gang violence. The native New Yorker previously faced attacks from Emanuel for being praised by Republican President Donald Trump. McCarthy then puts a spin on Trump’s “Make America Great Again” slogan to end his ad. “As mayor, I will rededicate us to these smart principles,” McCarthy says, “and make Chicago safe again.”

Claim: "But if my opponent had his way, the millions of Floridians who rely on it would've had their Social Security tied up in the stock market this week."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he said. He chose to dip into his retirement savings to help them pay bills and float until he goes back to work. If he doesn’t make up that difference, at worst he might have to work around another year or so before retirement. “I’m not looking for sympathy for myself, but I do understand that people..across the government are having serious problems right now, because of this,” he says.

Claim: "Gov. Crist has never wavered in his support of the Second Amendment, the right to bear arms."
Evidence Summary: The Second Amendment is not being trampled on, writes CNN's John Sutter. Sutter: "The solution to the problem of mass murders isn't to trample on the Second Amendment" "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he says. "The American people have been demanding we take action and this new Congress will deliver," Sutter adds. "We know that firearms are strongly linked to criminal gangs who use them to enforce control," he adds. 'This is about forgiveness and second chances for all of us,' says former Florida Gov. Charlie Crist.

Claim: "During the (Benghazi) attack, a stand-down order was given, and our troops were told to change their clothes four times."
Evidence Summary: "If these two have united, why can't we?" said John Camillo, deputy commander for government troops in Kajo Keji. For the first time, 10 opposition soldiers were stationed in the government barracks as part of a makeshift soldier swap. Government soldiers walked through town, unarmed and in civilian clothes, seemingly unconcerned by the possibility of attack. "There's really been a total change," said Abiggo Manson, field officer for the Support for Peace and Education Development Program.

Claim: Says the giant African land snail carries human meningitis.
Evidence Summary: The last of a particular kind of Hawaiian land snail has died. The rosy wolfsnail was introduced to Hawaii in the 1950s to control agricultural pests. "That particular invasive species is probably the main driver of extinction," says biologist David Sischo. Health officials have confirmed a case of rat lungworm disease in a Hawaiian infant who has been sick since December. The baby’s diagnosis marks the sixth case ofRat lungworm confirmed on Hawaii's Big Island in 2018, with an investigation into the child's case ongoing.

Claim: "Within a few years, we will be spending more on interest payments than on national security."
Evidence Summary: Ruben Navarrette: The U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit during brisk growth and full employment. He says the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits, which will be instructive. He asks: Given how our squabbling politicians can’t cooperate on much, who’s to say they’ll be able to fix this ticking bomb? He says interest payments alone could top spending on defense, Medicaid or children’’S Social Security may have to be slashed 21 percent.

Claim: "Under sequestration, the military was cut down to the smallest Army since 1940, the smallest Navy since 1915."
Evidence Summary: The Antideficiency Act has been tweaked over the years, but the 1981 opinion is still the basis of government shutdowns. “No one thought that agencies had to close down just because there was a short gap between appropriations,” Tiefer says. A defining moment in the making of America was threatened hostilities with France at the end of the 18th century. The big increase in defense appropriations for fiscal 2019 is almost all going... to the defense budget, not to the military.

Claim: "The Republicans didn't have a budget in '02, '04, '06."
Evidence Summary: The last time we faced a severe recession after years of deficit fearmongering, the 2009 recovery package was far too small. Democrats just rode back to power in the House campaigning not to tighten the government’s belt. Americans seem keen on government actually doing something about stagnant pay, devastating climate change, worsening inequality, and deep structural fissures like racism and sexism. It's puzzling that Democratic leadership watched the last three years and came away with the lesson that they need to spend time and energy demonstrating that they’re not tax-and-spend Democrats.

Claim: "China now owns $1.1 trillion of our debt, our trade deficit last year with them was a quarter of a trillion dollars."
Evidence Summary: China’s net spending on foreign services, mostly tourism, surged from $50 billion to more than $80 billion over the same period. Beijing is no longer buying dollars to keep mushrooming trade earnings from pushing up the yuan, but rather the opposite. The more the US president fulminates about China selling the US far more than it buys, the more it seems to go against him. By the end of last year, China exported $324bn more in goods and services to the US than it imported.

Claim: "The Internal Revenue code has ballooned to a 5,600-page, 4 million-word complicated mess that is seven times as long as the Bible with none of the good news."
Evidence Summary: "Getting communications from the IRS tends to freak people out, so when you can't get them an answer, it gets a little scary," says Jennifer Lyon-Weisman. Taxpayers will be confronting — many for the first time — a welter of changes made by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. People without health insurance may be surprised to learn they are still on the hook when it comes to Obamacare’s so-called individual mandate. Remember that big tax cut approved by Congress and the president? It will be reflected in most people's tax returns.

Claim: "My opponent in November of 2008 sent a missive to the White House, to President Obama-elect, and said, Heres how you need to sell cap-and-trade to the American people."
Evidence Summary: Donald Trump ran for president telling a story of business prowess. He said he would come to Washington and solve the problems the politicians couldn’t. Two years later, the longest government shutdown on record is revealing gaping cracks in his facade. For decades, America's trade policy, supported by establishment Democrats as well as establishment Republicans, helped the people at the top -- people like Jeff Flake's donors -- and hurt working Americans, writes Julian Zelizer. In the wake of this speech, many right-wing figures broke with pro-market orthodoxy in ways that have long been unthinkable, Zelizer says.

Claim: "Thurbert Baker kept a teen in jail ""who didn't even commit a felony."""
Evidence Summary: Cyntoia Brown killed a 43-year-old man who hired her for sex and was condemned to more than five decades in prison without parole. Brown, now 30, was a child who was being severely abused by men and who wore braided pigtails to her trial in 2004. Her case, which got attention from Kim Kardashian and Rihanna, is a clear injustice. More than a thousand Americans remain in prison for life because of crimes they committed as minors. It's one that should lead Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam to grant clemency for Brown before he leaves office in January.

Claim: "Three years after getting the $100 million (from Mark Zuckerberg), less than two-thirds of students in Cory Bookers Newark graduate."
Evidence Summary: The nation’s $1.5 trillion student loan burden weighs heavily on students and schools. The Great Recession reshaped the conversation in higher education to focus more on workplace skills and value. Politicians must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters, especially on health care and education. There remains a chance that President Donald Trump will square off with a fellow billionaire come 2020. But does anyone on the left want a candidate from the private sector as their nominee at a time when some in the party are running hard against big business, corporate greed and Wall Street?

Claim: "Under John McCain's health care plan, people get a $5,000 tax credit to buy a $12,000 health care policy, and ""that's a loss for you."""
Evidence Summary: The administration estimated that the government would save about $900 million a year on subsidies, and that 100,000 consumers would drop their coverage. Republicans killed the requirement to carry insurance as part of their tax law, but they delayed the repeal for one year. The penalty is $695 per person or 2.5 percent of income, whichever is larger. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014.

Claim: "Who are the most consistently misinformed media viewers? Fox viewers, consistently, every poll."
Evidence Summary: The media inflict far more damage to themselves and their credibility than almost anything the president tweets or any single piece of research put out about their biases. Unfortunately, the press have largely proven themselves incapable of this realization. The Fox News poll is based on landline and cellphone interviews with 1,008 randomly chosen registered voters nationwide and was conducted under the joint direction of Beacon Research (D) and Shaw & Company Research (R) from January 20-22, 2019. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points for all registered voters.

Claim: "Under Gov. Scott Walkers proposals, Money is being taken away from workers, and the tax breaks given to major corporations."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom laid out his plans for the state on his fourth day on the job. Former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker failed to understand Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's plan for a 70 percent marginal tax rate on earnings above $10 million. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. “We’ll get you unemployment insurance,” Newsom said to furloughed federal employees.

Claim: "There are close to 900,000 unemployed veterans in America right now."
Evidence Summary: An estimated one-third of the federal workforce is made up of veterans, according to the Office of Personnel Management. More than 250,000 veterans are not currently receiving paychecks. "Financial instability is one of the main cause of suicides among the veterans’ community," the Union Veterans Council said in a statement this week. Some 800,000 federal workers have gone without pay since Dec. 22, the longest government shutdown in U.S. history. The shutdown has exposed a deepening rift between the Department of Veterans Affairs and the union representing many of the VA’s employees.

Claim: "300,000 Floridians will lose their current health plans because of Obamacare, a plan Alex Sink supports."
Evidence Summary: About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including Obamacare. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. Republicans have a different choice to make. They can use the results of the election as an opportunity to officially cede the ground they have already really lost: that preexisting condition protections and the ACA are here to stay.

Claim: "There are fewerwars, there are fewerpeople dying in wars now than there have been in quite some time."
Evidence Summary: "Whatever happens, I'm always going to know that fact. Even if I have to spend the rest of my life convincing the administration, or whoever comes next" "We’ve made a lot of progress.” “That was nothing compared to what we’re seeing now.’ “But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to." “I’m going to be here until the end of my career.“

Claim: "So far, the war in Gaza has left more than 1,800 Palestinians dead -- the population equivalent to 100 9/11s."
Evidence Summary: This month marks the 10th anniversary of the first major military assault on the 2 million Palestinians of the Gaza Strip. The two hallmarks of Israel’s treatment of Gaza since then have been mendacity and the utmost brutality towards civilians. On 27 December 2008, Israel launched Operation Cast Lead, pounding the densely populated strip from the air, sea and land for 22 days. It was not a war or even “asymmetric warfare’ but a one-sided massacre. The claim that the operation was designed to “terrorise a civilian population” needs underlining. Terrorism is the use of force against civilians for political purposes.

Claim: The immigration proposal from the Gang of Eight is not amnesty.
Evidence Summary: President Trump tweeted that "amnesty" could be part of future legislation to overhaul the nation's immigration system. "No, Amnesty is not a part of my offer," Trump tweeted Sunday, in response. Vice President Mike Pence said the president is "absolutely determined to fixing our broken immigration system" The House and the Senate are scheduled to be back in session Tuesday, but no votes have been scheduled on Trump's plan to end the government shutdown. The president is offering a three-year extension for the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.

Claim: "Texas has installed more wind power than any other state, and all but four countries."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "But they also lead to more investment in low fuel economy cars and more driving. And that means even less progress on fighting climate change, which we know is largely man made," he adds. "That would not have been possible without the support of the residents of Harris County." "It has to encompass all parts of the country.”

Claim: The study of the Savannah River Estuary . . . clearly demonstrates the project can be constructed and [environmental] impacts will be mitigated.
Evidence Summary: A century after the Kankakee River was dredged and straightened in Indiana, it’s more prone to flooding than ever. A preliminary report on a plan to relieve some of the flooding received a lukewarm reception. The plan called for a combination of measures, such as stabilizing some river banks and allowing some areas to flood. “This is a river, and the management of it needs to be thought of that way,” said Siavash Beik, one of the plan's authors.

Claim: "After President Barack Obamas health care law takes full effect, 100 percent of Americans will depend on some form of federal payment, some form of government benefit to help provide for them."
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Under Barack Obamas watch, we have expended $805 billion to liberate the people of Iraq and, more importantly, 4,400 American lives."
Evidence Summary: "I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices," Obama says. "How much more American blood must be shed before Congress does its job?" he asks. "I will do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes," he adds. "It's time for a new generation of leaders to take charge of this country," he says, "and not wait for the next generation to do it for them" "I’m proud to be an American," Obama adds, "but I don’t think we’re ready for that yet"

Claim: "Arkansas Democratic congressional candidate Chad Causey was a Washington, D.C. bureaucrat."
Evidence Summary: A former Chicago alderman says Harris was "the worst attorney general ever" The current chairman of the Cook County Board's Finance Committee is the son of one former mayor. John Daley, an insurance broker who once worked for Near North, has acknowledged making more than $400,000 a year by securing insurance policies for businesses with government contracts. The policies he supplies do not insure his clients’ government projects, and Daley always votes “present’ when resolutions to approve public payments to his clients come before the committee.

Claim: Everyone in this country has access to health care.
Evidence Summary: New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said he believes everyone should have a right to health care. He unveiled a new health care program last week that would guarantee health care to all city residents, regardless of their ability to pay or immigration status. Undocumented New Yorkers will receive a health care card and have access to a primary care doctor through the program. The city will spend $100 million on the program, The New York Times reported. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey found.

Claim: "Twelve percent of the garbage collected in those SOLV cleanups, by volume, is plastic bags."
Evidence Summary: Plastic production has tripled in the last 30 years. Only about 9% of this has been recycled. The rest has been burned and contributes to climate change or is still polluting the environment. Most plastics are used for the production of packaging, which is often single-use. About 8m tonnes of plastic waste is dumped in the seas annually, according to the UN. The firms intend to invest in a wide variety of projects, including research and development into new recycling technologies, building infrastructure to collect and recycle waste.

Claim: "If you look at any real analysis, the Trans-Pacific Partnership is going to generate better-paying jobs that are more stable."
Evidence Summary: President Trump pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. That left the remaining 11 partners in the trade deal wondering what to do. Trump: "Many of those people that won’t be receiving a paycheck, many of thosePeople agree 100 percent with what I’m doing" But for decades, America's trade policy helped the people at the top and hurt working Americans, says CNN's John Sutter. The U.S. trade policy was supported by establishment Democrats as well as establishment Republicans.

Claim: It costs more money to put a person on death row than it does to lock them up for the rest of their lives because of attorney fees.
Evidence Summary: Nevada has drawn backing in the state high court fight from 15 of the 30 other states in the U.S. with capital punishment. Advocates argued that his lethal injection could be less humane than putting down a pet. Drug companies joined the fight — with cases still pending before state courts and the Nevada Supreme Court. Only one person out of the 10 members of the public who testified Wednesday favored the deal. The deal would lock in money for the government so it can continue to provide essential services.

Claim: "Currently, we're at 36 percent of our children born out of wedlock."
Evidence Summary: US fertility rate hits 30-year low. Only two states — South Dakota and Utah — had total fertility rates above replacement levels. Total fertility rates in the U.S. have been declining for years and women are generally giving birth for the first time later in life, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The gap between South Dakota, which had the highest rate, and Washington, D.C., which has the lowest rate, was 57 percent. The nation's total fertility rate was 16 percent below the level for a population to replace itself in 2017.

Claim: "Barack Obama supports plans to raise ""income taxes ... payroll taxes."""
Evidence Summary: The Democratic Party wants to raise taxes on people earning less than $250,000. The proposal is part of a larger plan to raise the minimum wage to $10.50 per hour. The goal is to raise $1.5 billion over the next 10 years. The plan would be funded by raising the income tax rate to 20 per cent from the current 19 per cent. It would also include a new surtax on earnings over $100,000, and a new tax on income over $200,000 to fund the new surcharge.

Claim: "60 percent of the jobs lost in the 2008 recession were living-wage jobs. Of the jobs weve gotten back, only 40 percent are living-wage."
Evidence Summary: “2018 was a banner year for the labor market,” said Julia Pollak, a labor economist at the online employment market site ZipRecruiter. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to lift the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest gains, and African-Americans, whose jobless rate has reached record lows.

Claim: "Says MittRomneys tax plans would give an additional $250,000 tax cut to millionaires and billionaires while raising taxes on the middle class."
Evidence Summary: The top tax on the wealthy should rise to as high as 70 percent, Ocasio-Cortez told "60 Minutes" on Sunday. That approach stands in stark contrast to the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which gave the lion's share of benefits from reducing federal income tax rates to top earners and corporations. Not surprisingly, conservatives are bashing her ideas. Americans for Tax Reform founder Grover Norquist wrote that her "soaking the rich" plan is "the opening shot in a renewed war against middle class taxpayers"

Claim: "Austin is number one in Texas in startups, venture capital and patents."
Evidence Summary: Texas added 379,000 new residents from July 2017 to July 2018, according to U.S. census data. Illinois, meanwhile, lost population for the fifth consecutive year. Pritzker set the marker Monday: Make Illinois the fastest-growing big state economy. If the new governor and new legislature do make this state more hospitable for employers, then more tax revenue will roll into Springfield, he said.. “The people here are friendly. And the weather is appealing.” — Lyndsay Hunsaker, explaining why she moved to Texas.

Claim: "In some communities, for $10,000 worth of (PIP) coverage its $1,500 a year."
Evidence Summary: Figures from Office for Budget Responsibility will boost disability groups’ calls for overhaul of PIP system. A saving of £2bn was expected by 2018, but that has since been revised to an over-spend by £1.5bn to £2billion. The figures are expected to boost calls by disability groups for an overhaul of the system, which has been described as a “vicious attack” on disabled people. The plan expands upon the city's MetroPlus public option plan, as well as the state's exchange through the federal Affordable Care Act.

Claim: Theyre saying that 40 percent of the traffic that goes over [the Sakonnet River Bridge is from] out of state.
Evidence Summary: A bill from the governor's office provided only the plan’s organizational mechanism. The Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, an arm of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, would set the tolls. Even if the proposal does go through, it will not be enough to meet all of the M.T.A.'s capital needs, which could be as high as $60 billion. The first phase of an effort to reconstruct the bridge on Green Bay Road as well as the roadway south of Route 176 is underway.

Claim: "Washington politicians are paid over $200,000 an hour for speeches."
Evidence Summary: Lobbying, consulting and corporate-funded think tank industries boomed over the past three decades as Congress gutted itself. Corporations actually spend more money on lobbying in Washington than Congress spends total. Stagnant pay and reduced staff are ethics and corruption problems. Some argue this is money well spent, that it is a form of political speech that educates and informs the electorate. Others say sums that massive corrupt the whole system. It is about money in politics, it's about the influence of money.

Claim: "Certainly were going to be the most restrictive state in the land in terms of who can get medical marijuana, how it will be prescribed and how it will be achieved in terms of moving it into the marketplace."
Evidence Summary: Ohio is one of “the top five states with the highest rates for opioid-related overdose deaths,” according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. Gov. Mike DeWine sued the pharmaceutical companies for flooding his state with prescription painkillers. The state Board of Pharmacy says it has no official policy on legal pot in Ohio. Ten states and the District of Columbia have legalized recreational marijuana use, and another eight look likely to do so in 2019. All these jurisdictions first passed laws permitting the use of ‘medical’ marijuana.

Claim: "Wisconsins economy has tanked under Gov. Scott Walker andso far in 2015 over 6,685 people have been laid off, already more than in all of 2014."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent.

Claim: "In Virginias Medicaid program, approximately 30 percent, or $2.7 billion a year, is lost to waste, fraud and inefficiencies."
Evidence Summary: From 2006 to 2016, the budget of the Veterans Hospital Administration grew from $38 billion to $91 billion. One reason is that the VHA is less than nimble at responding to new demands. The Trump administration is quietly devising a plan bypassing Congress to give block grants to states for Medicaid. Republicans have sought to rein in Medicaid spending, especially as enrollment swelled under Obamacare’s expansion of the program to millions of low-income adults in recent years. The administration wants to let states use waivers to reshape their Medicaid programs, but the effort could face legal challenges in the courts.

Claim: "Says 3,000 Americans died of gunfire between the time of the Ebola scare in Dallas and the midterm elections."
Evidence Summary: Since 2009, at least 177 of America’s schools experienced a shooting. Five people were killed in a shooting at a bank in Sebring, Florida, but America's leaders didn't seem to notice. The indifference may be reflective of the political navel-gazing that's allowed some 800,000 federal employees to work a month without pay. A number of potential Democratic presidential candidates -- former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg, in particular -- are pledging to make gun control a centerpiece of their campaigns.

Claim: "Last year, I stopped an Obamacare bailout and saved taxpayers $2.5 billion."
Evidence Summary: Trump boasted about his efforts to cut red tape this month in a speech to the American Farm Bureau Federation. The president, along with a GOP Congress, has moved aggressively to unwind regulations. Enrollment in the federally run insurance marketplaces dipped less than 5 percent this year, even though there's no longer a tax penalty for people who go without insurance. Democrats made preservation of Obamacare's protection for people with pre-existing medical conditions a centerpiece of their midterm campaign. "As a result of the repeal and replace effort, Democrats are on offense now on health care and Republicans are on defense"

Claim: "Holding up a BlackBerry, McCain campaign adviser says, ""youre looking at the miracle John McCain helped create."""
Evidence Summary: Brad Parscale, Mitt Romney's 2020 campaign manager, came out swinging in the president’s defense. “The truth is @MittRomney lacked the ability to save this nation,” Parscale wrote on Twitter late Tuesday night. McCain added that she believes Romney is “trying to make some weird comeback in one way or another” from his failed presidential run in 2012. "We are bleeding profusely and need a tourniquet, not Band-Aids," he said.

Claim: "Says most illegal immigrants draw welfare benefits, theyre sending their kids to school, theyre using the public services."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump's prime-time speech on the U.S.-Mexico border wall was widely panned for its lies and misrepresentations. Fox News anchor Shepard Smith challenged many of Trump's claims by using the government's own numbers. In fact, illegal immigration costs taxpayers a staggering $134.9 billion a year while contributing only $19 billion in state, federal, and local taxes. Medical costs make up the lion’s share of government expenditures on illegal immigrants, while education is the largest single expense.

Claim: "When Colorado eased its medical marijuana laws, fatal accidents involving pot-using drivers soared while overall traffic fatalities decreased."
Evidence Summary: Federal and state surveys and the New England Journal of Medicine report that teen marijuana use dropped a little in Colorado. But there is bad news: The driving death rate increased in Colorado and Washington after legalization. A more stringent measure that may indicate whether someone was actually high at the time of an accident suggests an increase of 84 percent. That’s terrible, but the numbers of accidents are so small -- 35 in all of Colorado in 2017, up from 19 in 2014. If anti-drug warriors want to look seriously at the statistics, they should also include the harm done by drug prohibition itself.

Claim: "Were making more than ever off oil and gas right now, but its no secret that oil production in Texas peaked in the 1970s."
Evidence Summary: Thousands of shale wells drilled in the last five years are pumping less oil and gas than their owners forecast to investors. The Wall Street Journal compared the well-productivity estimates that top shale-oil companies gave investors to projections from third parties. Last year the U.S. became the world's largest oil producer, thanks to the same "fracking" revolution that has boosted natural gas production. President Donald Trump has encouraged the trend, saying he called OPEC and told them to keep production high.

Claim: "Says that several times in the last 15 years, Austin City Council candidates have won seats after trailing by more than 4,000 votes in the election prompting the runoff."
Evidence Summary: JoAnn Desmond filed enough signatures to get on the ballot against Ara Goshgarian. Desmond is seeking to replace Jack Reisenberg, who is stepping down from the council. If no candidate receives more than 50 percent of the vote, the election’s top two vote-getters will face off in an April 2 runoff. State Rep. LaShawn Ford should appear on the mayoral election ballot, the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners ruled Saturday, giving Chicagoans a look at the final lineup of candidates.

Claim: Did you know ObamaCare will cost nearly twice as much as initially expected -- $1.8 TRILLION?
Evidence Summary: The proposal would lead to a modest premium increase next year under the Affordable Care Act. The roughly 1 percent increase could feed into the Democratic argument that the Trump administration is trying to "sabotage" coverage for millions. The administration said the proposal is intended to improve the accuracy of a complex formula that affects what consumers pay for their premiums. The proposal would raise the out-of-pocket maximum that people with employer-sponsored coverage pay in 2020. The critics claimed these changes and others like them would “eliminate protections for people with pre-existing conditions.

Claim: "Almost every poll has shown that Sanders vs. Trump does a lot better than Clinton vs. Trump and, thats true nationally."
Evidence Summary: A 57 percent majority of Trump voters believe that most or all of the congressional GOP supports Trump. At the peak of infighting between Congress and the White House in 2017, just 42 percent said the same. If pushed to choose whom they’d be more likely to support in a political discussion between Trump and congressional Republicans, Trump voters currently say by a 64-percentage-point margin that they would back the president. The poll was taken at the beginning of the month, just after Sen. Mitt Romney lambasted the president in an editorial.

Claim: "There are 30,000 people that have been killed with seat belts."
Evidence Summary: Kolosh said half of people who died in crashes they analyzed were not wearing seatbelts. Meanwhile, the frequency of pedestrian deaths has increased, led by a jump in fatalities in urban areas. Pedestrian deaths have been at a 25-year high, according to the Governors Highway Safety Association.“It’s nothing more than demoralizing seeing accidents occur and having expertise to investigate and being unable to do so,” Kolosh said. "The model is already credited with saving 62 additional lives," he said.

Claim: "Regarding sexual assault against women, Its actually safer not to be in college than it is to be in college."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. Department of Education has angered women's rights advocates by proposing an overhaul of Title IX. More than one in five female undergrads were victims of sexual assault or misconduct, according to a survey. Boys are more likely to be sexually assaulted than they are to be falsely accused of assault. The proposed rules will become final after a 60-day public comment period that will likely result in some revisions, the Education Department said in a statement.. "Every survivor of sexual violence must be taken seriously, and every student accused of sexual misconduct must know that guilt is not predetermined," Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos said.

Claim: "Perdue mismanaged Pillowtex, and nearly 8,000 people got laid off."
Evidence Summary: The Treasury department furloughed roughly 72,400 workers. That is nearly three times the number of people who work at Facebook. It’s also more than the 640,000 people employed by the entire textiles and clothing manufacturing industry. It's 16 times the size of the entire coal mining industry.) Clothing manufacturers 800,000 government workers Fabric mills Rugs, carpets Other Clothing Manufacturers 800, million people in the U.S. work in the textile and clothing industry.

Claim: "Seven times Obama could have stopped Chinas cheating. Seven times, he refused."
Evidence Summary: China's vice president used his own speech in Davos to take shots at Trump and his administration. "Shifting blame for one's own problems onto others will not resolve the problems," said Wang Qishan. "I give [Mr. Trump] some points for trying a different playbook, but the way he's played it, I think, is making things worse, not better," Blinken told Morell. "The president was right to confront the issue" of unfair trade practices, Blinken said.

Claim: "We now know these firms areunwilling to put up any private money, for Californias high-speed rail project."
Evidence Summary: Bolsonaro wants to attract private investment in the country's underbuilt road and rail networks. The state-owned China Railway Rolling Stock Corp. has used bargain prices to win four of five large U.S. transit rail car contracts awarded since 2014. The company is expected to be a strong contender for a Metro contract likely to exceed $1 billion for between 256 and 800 of the agency's newest series of rail cars. "This is part of a larger conversation about this country and China, and domination of industries," said Robert Puentes of the Eno Center for Transportation.

Claim: "Says Ron Johnson opposes entirely a federal minimum wage, except perhaps for guest workers."
Evidence Summary: The federal wage floor currently prevails in the 21 states that don’t already mandate a higher one. The push behind the bill shows just how much the debate surrounding the minimum wage has shifted within the Democratic Party. Since Trump's election, more than five million net new jobs have been created, driving the unemployment rate down near a half-century low. Small businesses account for two-thirds of new job creation, so the booming labor market is also a reflection of their strength. The labor market has been so strong that it has drawn millions of people back into the workforce.

Claim: "For the past year, I was censored and muzzled."
Evidence Summary: "I am not going to be bullied into resigning," he says. He's not sure what his next steps will be, and whether he'll consider legal action of his own. "At the moment I'm just celebrating. I will take stock and see what I'm going to do. Four-and-a-half years has been a long time to be in a legal situation" "I live in a cultural ghetto. I am invited to participate only on the basis of my supposed oppression," says Brady.

Claim: "When Charlie Crist was elected governor, Florida ranked 31st in K-12 education. ""Last year ... we went from 31st to 14. And this year, the top 10 in America."""
Evidence Summary: For Republicans, Florida stands out as the best political news from an otherwise grim year. Florida’s new Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, is making a mark quickly in his first few days in office. “We just live in a red state here,” said Alex Sink, a former Democratic state official who once narrowly lost a bid for governor. Another lightning rod is the school board, which over the past couple of election cycles has filled with ever more champions of charter schools.

Claim: "Due to Obamacare, Arkansas has covered almost 14 percent of its uninsured already."
Evidence Summary: California, New York and Washington are among the states that embraced the Affordable Care Act. The uninsured rates in all three states are below the national average of 10 percent. Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state’s voters. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including Obamacare.

Claim: "Middle-class families throughout America (would) have to pay $6,000 per year to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy."
Evidence Summary: Freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy over who does and doesn't understand how America’s tax system works. The wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act radically reduced taxes for the wealthy and corporations, at a cost of $1.9 trillion over 10 years. A recent report found that $200 billion in benefits from the new law, out of a total of $275 billion, goes to the top 20 percent of households.

Claim: "According to the Congressional Budget Office, repealing Obamacare would increase the budget deficit."
Evidence Summary: Proposed rule changes would lead to a modest premium increase next year under the Affordable Care Act. The roughly 1 percent increase could feed into the Democratic argument that the Trump administration is trying to "sabotage" coverage for millions. Premiums under the health law were basically stable this year after several sharp annual hikes. President Trump, who once predicted "Obamacare" would "implode" or "explode," took credit for calm insurance markets. The uncomfortable truth is that the tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit.

Claim: "I had previously said that NATO was obsolete because it failed to deal adequately with terrorism. Since my comments, they have changed their policy and now have a new division focused on terror threats."
Evidence Summary: Withdrawing from NATO would completely undermine our national interest and the stability of the world. The prime beneficiary would be the Kremlin. The president’s argument alleging NATO obsolescence ignores the thousands of allied troops deployed around the world at this very moment. Currently, 8,000 NATO soldiers are deployed to Afghanistan alongside roughly 14,000 Americans. On September 12, 2001, NATO members invoked the Article V collective security guarantee of the alliance treaty and have been in that country ever since. The end of the American nuclear guarantee might also encourage several European countries to create or expand their nuclear forces.

Claim: "Taxpayer money will provide iPod Touch devices to high school students in Utah, BlackBerry smart phones to smokers who kick the habit and funding for a study of exotic ants in East Africa."
Evidence Summary: U.S. shoppers are still paying more for organic food, but the price premium is falling as organic options multiply. The tax furor triggered by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has opened debate on a core question for all Democrats: Where should government get more money? Drone sightings reported by airline pilots over New Jersey renew questions about how to accommodate the popular devices into the nation's airspace. The federal budget deficit is already projected to top $1 trillion in 2019 and keep rising for years.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney has said we dont need more firemen, more policemen, more teachers."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote an op-ed in the Washington Post praising some of President Trump's policy decisions. Romney says he doesn't intend to comment on every Trump tweet, but he promises to "speak out against significant statements or actions that are divisive, racist, sexist, anti-immigrant, dishonest or destructive to democratic institutions" Romney has been a frequent critic of Trump, particularly Trump’s conduct in office. Trump responded to the op-eds: “I wish Mitt could be more of a team player. If he fought really hard against President Obama like he does against me, he would’ve won the election.”

Claim: "In the African-American community today, 68 percent of kids born are born out of wedlock."
Evidence Summary: The nation's total fertility rate was 16 percent below the level for a population to replace itself in 2017, a National Vital Statistics report published this week found. "The U.S. is one of the most family-hostile countries across the world, which is really sad," Collins said. "We talk a lot about families sort of being the backbone of our society, but we don't support that with any material policies that would actually enable people to reconcile their work and family lives," she said.

Claim: "Says that at a campaign rally President Barack Obama spent so much time screaming at a protester, and frankly it was a disgrace."
Evidence Summary: President Obama's Cairo speech was a gross distortion of what he said a decade ago. Rep. Wilson, D-S.C., shouted “you lie!” at Obama during a Joint Session of Congress in 2009. The House didn’t vote to reprimand or censure Wilson for his outburst, instead securing a less formal “resolution of disapproval” to discipline his Palmetto State colleague. President Trump tweeted that the Covington Catholic High School students were "treated unfairly"

Claim: "Says that before Rick Perry became governor, only 4 percent of our total labor force was a minimum wage job ... Today, that number has more than doubled (to) 9.5 percent."
Evidence Summary: More than 75 percent are living paycheck to paycheck, and more than 40 percent don’t have $400 in cash in the bank to cover emergencies. The Federal minimum wage is still $7.25, although plenty of states require employers to pay a far higher amount. Because of economic growth, employers can afford to pay higher wages, and they need to if they are going to attract the best employees. In 1966, the federal minimum wage was $1.25/hour. At 40 hours a week, 50 weeks a year, the annual wage would equal $2,500.

Claim: "When Hillary Clinton ran the State Department, $6 billion was missing. How do you miss $6 billion? You ran the State Department, $6 billion was either stolen they dont know."
Evidence Summary: Hillary Clinton tweeted a reminder on Monday that in 2016 she predicted Donald Trump would become the puppet of Russian President Vladimir Putin. The former secretary of state’s flashback comes after an article Friday in The New York Times said that the FBI had opened an investigation in 2017 into whether the president had been secretly working on behalf of Russia. Clinton retweeted an excerpt from a 2016 presidential debate in which Trump said Putin had no respect for her. "Like I said: A puppet," Hillary Clinton tweeted Monday, referencing a famous exchange between her and Trump during their third and final presidential debate.

Claim: Prayer rugs have recently been found on the Texas side of the border in the brush.
Evidence Summary: The Washington Examiner report did not include any photographic evidence of the prayer rugs in question and largely relied on hearsay. The Department of Homeland Security did not respond to requests for evidence of Mr. Trump’s claims. The claim implies that a significant number of Muslims are illegally entering the country through the southern border with Mexico and, taken together with his other comments about the border, that they are dangerous. Although some Muslims do cross the U.S.-Mexico border, numbers are relatively low and past claims about prayer r rug found there have been disproven.

Claim: "The transportation tax is regressive, and Emory University is literally getting its own transit line at virtually no cost to itself."
Evidence Summary: Transportation officials were working to ease the pain of elongated and likely overcrowded commutes. New Yorkers have asked why subway officials had not thought of the solution sooner. Outgoing Mayor Rahm Emanuel has pushed to encourage transit-oriented development along train stations and, more recently, on the city’s busiest bus lines. “You either push transit- oriented development in the city or you don’t,” said DePaul University transportation professor Joe Schwieterman, director of the Chaddick Institute for Metropolitan Development.

Claim: "Says that in 2009, Jon Huntsman said that the Recovery Act wasnt large enough and as governor he asked for $14.4 billion in federal stimulus funds. Now hes saying that he never supported it."
Evidence Summary: Montana Gov. Steve Bullock declined to say if he would veto the bill should it arrive on his desk. Bullock says he doesn't recall state Senate President Scott Sales ever strongly advocating for infrastructure investments in Montana. The move also follows Pritzker’s announcement last week that he would use money from his own pocket to double the salaries of his his top government aides. The Republican leaders of the Illinois House and Senate did not comment on the moves, but the state party pushed back.

Claim: Gov. Romney cut off kosher meals for Jewish senior citizens who were on Medicaid to save $5 a day.
Evidence Summary: Gov.-elect J.B. Pritzker met with seniors and called out bingo as part of his pre-inauguration day of service. Some people who receive food stamps said they were worried they would have less money to buy healthy food if they only received a percentage of their usual benefits. "It's just too difficult to buy fresh food with just the little bit of money we have from his paychecks," said a mother of four who relies solely on her husband’s income.

Claim: "Since February 2009, the private sector has lost millions of jobs while the federal government has grown by hundreds of thousands of workers."
Evidence Summary: “I noticed in the private sector many people were losing their jobs and not necessarily because they were bad employees,” said Fernandes, 33. “If you were looking for security and longevity, [the federal government] is probably one of the last institutions for that, other than the military.” After just a year and three months on the job, he has experienced three government shutdowns already. The first, last January, lasted three days, and the second, in February, just a few hours.

Claim: "Most of the people that work in finance make $70,000, $80,000 a year."
Evidence Summary: Financial advisers help consumers manage their investment portfolios, protect themselves from risk, make tax-smart decisions and save for major expenses. Their field is expected to grow by 15% between 2016 and 2026, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Jobs in the profession are also expected to take on more complexity, as shifts in technology, data transparency and consumers’ desire for self-service..."And so I have no choice." "Not everyone has a large savings. Some people live paycheck to paycheck"

Claim: "A grant for $5,000 [from the Governors Workforce Board] went to teach an employee at a company that makes ornamental business card holders how to use Facebook and Twitter."
Evidence Summary: One-quarter of a $500,000 grant is to go toward operating costs at the multiple universities she has partnered with for the project. Universities rely on a stagnant pool of federal grant money to pay salaries and fund research. Facebook says it's investing $300 million over the next three years in local news programs, partnerships and other initiatives. The move comes at a difficult time for the news industry, which is facing falling profits and diminishing print readership. The foundation typically funds larger-scale projects or programs, like the sky shows at the district’s planetarium.

Claim: We spent $223-million on a bridge in Alaska to an island with 50 people on it.
Evidence Summary: In May 2018, the board approved a $400,000 fund to oppose the project “due to both the need being unwarranted and the absence of data on its full environmental impact,” according to the village’s website. Last winter, ice in the Bering sea was at record lows, forming later and melting far sooner than usual. According to ornithologist George Divoky, this loss of winter sea ice could be "the final nail in the coffin" for a colony of birds.

Claim: The health care law is the largest tax [increase] in the history of our country
Evidence Summary: The proposal would raise the out-of-pocket maximum that people with employer-sponsored coverage pay in 2020. Republicans say the move is necessary to cut inflated subsidies, but Democrats say it's an effort to sabotage the health law. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs, according to a new poll.

Claim: "Obamacare cuts $500 billion in future Medicare funding in order to fund the new constitutionally questionable government mandate, even going so far as to scuttle Medicares most popular (and successful) part, Medicare Advantage."
Evidence Summary: A Texas judge recently agreed with the attorneys general that the landmark health care law is unconstitutional. Democrats have also made lowering prescription drug prices a top priority. But on another health care issue, Medicare for all, they face debate even within their own ranks on how far to go. It's important to note that the current Medicare program is not self-sufficient, writes Julian Zelizer. He asks: Why would anyone advocate expanding a program headed for insolvency in 2026 while simultaneously upending the employer provided plans that Americans like?

Claim: "Says an election clerk in Green Bay refused to allow early voting on the UW-Green Bay campus because she was afraid it would help Democrats, showing outrageous partisan bias."
Evidence Summary: Early voting in Wisconsin has been limited to two weeks. A new study finds that early voting on its own is more likely to benefit Republicans. The study was published by the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. It says the early voting restrictions are unfair to those who can't afford to vote in the first two weeks of the year, as well as those who live in rural areas. The report says the restrictions should be extended to include all residents of the state, not just those in the state's largest cities.

Claim: "The Baucus health care bill ""would drastically restrict the use of flexible spending accounts (FSAs) in order to help pay for health care reform."""
Evidence Summary: Democrats expect to introduce bills to limit the use of low-cost short-term health plans that have limited coverage. Republican opposition to Democratic efforts is likely, although many GOP lawmakers voiced support for pre-existing condition coverage during their election campaigns. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services. Small business groups want Congress to pass legislation limiting increases in health care costs — but they're not optimistic about the chances of doing so.

Claim: Raising the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour will destroy between half a million and one million jobs.
Evidence Summary: At $7.25 an hour, the minimum wage is now more than 25% below where it was in real terms half a century ago. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that raising it to $15 an hour would directly or indirectly lift the wages of 41.5 million people. This would generate $144bn in additional income for families who need it most, including 23.1 million women and 4.5m single parents. The benefits of a minimum wage increase are so great that even President Trump has advocated for one in the past.

Claim: "Ten years ago, John McCain offered a bill that said he would ban a candidate from paying registered lobbyists."
Evidence Summary: House Democrats are up and running, and their first bill is instructive. Couched as an anti-corruption and good-government measure, it is really an attempt to silence or obstruct political opponents. A central part of H.R. 1 is “campaign-finance reform,” no surprise given the progressive fixation with money in politics. The bill requires some advocacy groups to publicly disclose the names of donors who give more than $10,000, even if the groups...

Claim: "Zero Planned Parenthood facilities are licensed to do mammograms. Planned Parenthood, women dont need you!"
Evidence Summary: "Planned Parenthood is not a 'qualified' health care provider," the group's president says. "We are a provider of health care," the president adds. The group says it will continue to provide health care to women and children in need of it. The organization says it has no plans to stop providing health care for women and girls in the U.S. It says it is committed to working with women and families to improve the quality of their lives and the health of their children.

Claim: "Under the Obama administrations bailout of General Motors, Ohio dealerships were forced to close."
Evidence Summary: General Motors code named its November announcement to cut nearly 15,000 jobs in North America and restructure itself “Turbo’ President Donald Trump called Barra’s decision “nasty” and said GM had “better” find a product to build at a plant in Ohio. Representative Debbie Dingell, a Democrat from southeast Michigan and former GM employee, said at the time that GM had become “the most thoroughly disliked company in Washington.”

Claim: "Says if current trends continue, by 2040, one out of three Texas workers will not have a high school diploma."
Evidence Summary: The percentage of Americans who started college but didn’t earn a four-year degree has doubled since 1960, with an estimated 20 percent of working adults having some college credits, but no degree. Pressure is growing to change this. Corporations will have to look more at the changing nature of jobs and, rather than laying off people whose job has been outsourced or automated, prepare them for something else. From 2015 to 2035, the number of working-age Americans with domestic-born parents is expected to fall by eight million.

Claim: "Says President Barack Obama has amended, delayed, or repealed 19 components of his very own (health care) law."
Evidence Summary: Zoe Tillman: The Trump administration has taken steps to undermine the Affordable Care Act. She says members of the new Congress have an opportunity to reverse course. Tillman says Congress should protect access to health care for millions of Americans and sexual and reproductive health care services for women and girls. The new Congress should also reiterate the importance of respect for human rights, she says, and make clear that the current path is not acceptable. The House will vote on whether to affirm the House's intervention in the lawsuit.

Claim: "If Congress does not pass the renewal of the payroll tax cut before the end of the year, nearly 160 million working families will see their taxes go up by roughly $1,000."
Evidence Summary: Tax changes in Trump's Tax Cuts and Jobs Act mean 10 percent of taxpayers could end up paying more. But as long as you withheld at least 85 percent of your income in 2018, the IRS says it won’t penalize you for underestimating your bill. The tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit, which now appears on track to top $1 trillion this year. If growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more.

Claim: "Secretly, unbeknownst to members of Congress, over $105 billion was hidden in the Obamacare legislation."
Evidence Summary: Americans for Tax Fairness says obtaining Trump's tax returns is a "legitimate exercise of Congress's oversight authority" Democrats plan to use a 1924 law to demand that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin turn over Trump's records to Richard Neal, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. “I’m six days into the term, and you already used all your ammo. So enjoy being exhausted for the next two years while we run train on the progressive agenda,” Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez told the WaPo.

Claim: "An annual income of $500,000 in Manhattan, believe it or not, is middle class."
Evidence Summary: Cities like New York and San Francisco are no longer a place for those without a college degree. "There is often no room" for those who don't have a job or a home, he says. "It's very difficult to make ends meet" in these cities, he adds. "We need to change the way we think about what it means to be middle-class and to be a member of the middle class in this country’s economic recovery," he says, "and not just as a means to an end"

Claim: "Seventy-four percent of Rhode Islanders support [a] national popular vote [for president] because they, as I, believe in one person-one vote."
Evidence Summary: In her annual Condition of the State address on Tuesday, Reynolds said the governor shouldn’t have sole discretion in restoring voting rights. “Our founders gave us a process to amend the constitution, should the passage of time change our view. Let’s begin that process now,” she said. ‘It is past time to directly elect our President and Vice President,’ Cohen said in a statement. � ‘Americans expect and deserve the winner of the popular vote to win office.’

Claim: "When I was speaker, we had four consecutive balanced budgets."
Evidence Summary: President Bush’s most memorable campaign promise was: “Read my lips, no new taxes” But the Democrats made him a deal that included a tax increase and Mr. Bush wasn’t re-elected. “I took office amid a great ethical, moral and economic crisis. I am committed to changing our history,” he said.“The president needs effective conservative leaders in Congress who will not only support his agenda, but actually get things done”

Claim: "In Rhode Island, 28 percent of adults released from state prisons are re-incarcerated within a year."
Evidence Summary: The study used the home addresses of offenders to differentiate between Wales and England. In the U.S., more than 600,000 people are released from prison every year. A previous attempt to pass legislation that would make juveniles eligible for parole after serving 30 years instead of 51 years expired in committee last year. “When we lock them up for life, we discount their ability to rehabilitate and become better citizens,” said Judge Sheila Calloway, the juvenile court judge, who has been pushing for reform.

Claim: "When John Kasich became governor of Ohio, there was an $8 billion budget deficit and now theres a $2 billion surplus."
Evidence Summary: John Kasich: It's time for Republicans in state capitals and Washington to get in step with the fast-moving parade. He says anyone falling behind gets swept up by those guys who follow the horses. Kasich: "If I can't win, I'm not going to do it," he said when asked about a potential 2020 run. "We’ve got to get off the couch and figure out what we can do by ourselves -- right here at home, where we live," he added.

Claim: "A request for ""an increase in troops sat on desks in this White House (during the presidency of George W. Bush), including the vice president's, for more than eight months, a resource request filled by President Obama in March."""
Evidence Summary: The request is for more combat engineers to install concertina wire and for more aircraft and crews to transport CBP officers. Acting Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan must review the request and determine how to provide the assistance. The current authorization for the deployment expires Jan. 31, although an administration official said that could be extended. Trump insists the situation is a national emergency, but Democrats have resisted wall funding without a more comprehensive overhaul of immigration policy. The latest troop request comes during a partial government shutdown that has lasted two weeks.

Claim: "In Texas, there are 668 Democratic Hispanic elected officials to the 60 in the Republican Party."
Evidence Summary: Julián Castro, D-Texas, announced Saturday that he will run for president in 2020. Castro says he can be an “antidote” to the current political climate of fear and xenophobia. The question for Castro and his supporters is this: Will he be the right Latino candidate for the time of Trump? There are thirty-three Latino Democrats in the current Congress and five Republicans who have their own caucus known as the Congressional Hispanic Conference. The highest number of Hispanics in Congress represents a greater focus on the community at large.

Claim: "Without the financial resources provided by hunters to protect habitat and stop poachers, there would be no infrastructure for wildlife management."
Evidence Summary: "The notion that human beings might exterminate a whole species … you just hadn’t thought about it,” he said. The relationship between hunters and conservation has always surprised me. Yet it’s often imperative to the success of major initiatives in the south, thanks to the influence of the not-for-profit organization Ducks Unlimited, which has a worldwide membership of 700,000. There are more than 34 million sportsmen and women in the U.S. and over 13m acres of habitat.

Claim: "Health care reform ""establishes a new board of federal bureaucrats (the 'Health Benefits Advisory Committee') to dictate the health plans that all individuals must purchase."""
Evidence Summary: Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began. The Trump administration in late 2017 made some bold health-care reforms that appear to be moving things in the right direction. The critics claimed these changes and others like them would lead to “higher costs and less coverage” and would “eliminate protections for people with pre-existing conditions.”

Claim: The United States still ranks 20th in the world in access to broadband -- over 50 percent below the best nations.
Evidence Summary: The figures reflect not only the spread of online connectivity, but whether people are able to use it. The first half of the world was the easier to bring online. Connectivity swept through developed nations and other regions where high incomes, good education and dense urban centres smoothed the way. The second half is expected to be harder to hook up. Many places that remain offline are rural and remote where the costs of installing mobile internet towers and other infrastructure can be five times higher than in urban areas.

Claim: "When union membership goes down, so do (middle class) wages."
Evidence Summary: Union membership in the U.S. continues to shrink, showing that organized labor still faces headwinds. Participation in a union fell to 10.5 percent last year, from 10.7 percent in 2017 and 2016. Just 6.4 percent of private-sector workers belonged to a union last year. With the power of a union, workers across the country can have not just the bare minimum, but a real shot at a better life, says Mary Kay Henry. The Fight for $15 has proven that sticking together and acting in union is the only way to challenge the rigged economy, she says.

Claim: "Obama did not open new lands to offshore drilling all of these areas were already open for drilling once Congress and President Bush lifted the moratorium in 2008. Instead, President Obama yesterday announced what areas he would CLOSE to offshore drilling."
Evidence Summary: The Interior Department is still handing out permits for oil drilling on federal land and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as pushing ahead with plans to drill in the Alaskan Arctic. The federal Bureau of Land Management has accepted and published 22 new drilling permit applications in Alaska, North Dakota, New Mexico and Oklahoma since the start of the shutdown. The Obama White House vehemently opposed opening up these territories, subjecting development requests to endless delays and imposing a statewide drilling moratorium in Alaska. Despite activist hysteria, oceanic drilling rigs have never been safer.

Claim: "The Democratic Congress has already taken significant steps to create jobs and jump-start the economy, resulting in the lowest tax rates in over 50 years and the creation of over 500,000 new jobs so far this year."
Evidence Summary: Manufacturing jobs grew at the fastest rate in 23 years and the unemployment rate for Americans without a high school diploma reached the lowest point ever recorded. Wages rose 3.1 percent -- the biggest jump since 2009 -- and that "low-skilled workers are among the biggest beneficiaries" The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership.

Claim: Our school test scores are right at the bottom.
Evidence Summary: ACT reserves the right to cancel test scores when there is reason to believe that scores are invalid. Proof of misconduct is not required to cancel scores. More than 1,000 higher education institutions have already adopted test-optional policies. New York officials released a list of 245 of the state’s lowest-performing schools Thursday, using new measures to identify the bottom 5% of public schools. The Los Angeles Unified School District boasts of graduating about 80 percent of students. But only 60 percent of those who graduated actually completed the necessary coursework.

Claim: "There was a report that came out from the FBI a warning, not a report ... saying that, in fact, al-Qaida was planning to attack malls during the Christmas holidays."
Evidence Summary: The New York Times reports that the FBI began investigating whether President Trump himself was a potential threat to national security after he fired former FBI Director James Comey. In a joint Democratic rebuttal to President Trump's address, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi accused the president of fear-mongering and manufacturing a crisis. 'Until America tells the truth about itself, we are not going to heal': Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez talks to Ta-Nehisi Coates about Martin Luther King Jr.'s legacy.

Claim: "Obamas Justice-designate Sotomayor threw out (the New Haven firefighters) lawsuit in a sneaky, unsigned opinion -- the judicial equivalent of talk to the hand."
Evidence Summary: Ruth Bader Ginsburg missed oral arguments this week, the first time she’s missed courtroom arguments in 25 years. Ginsburg's already improbable medical history — including early-stage colon (1999) and pancreatic cancers (2009) — may now include lung cancer. For the second day in a row, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. announced that she would participate in the day's two cases by reviewing the transcripts of the arguments. The Republican obsession with jamming judges through continues to comically accelerate.

Claim: "29 mass shootings have been committed by concealed carriers since 2007, while during this period only one (1) licensed civilian meaningfully intervened in a mass shooting."
Evidence Summary: Last week, a Chicago woman shot and killed a teen who tried to rob her with a gun. David Perry: It is extremely rare for a legal gun owner to use a gun successfully in self-defense. Perry: In recent years, many states have relaxed their concealed carry laws. There is no credible evidence that permissive laws prevent or deter crime, he says. He says states that passed right-to-carry laws experienced 13 to 15 percent higher aggregate violent crime rates, over a period of 10 years.

Claim: "For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses dying than we do starting."
Evidence Summary:  Gallup: U.S. small business owners are more optimistic about business conditions now than at any point in recorded history. Since President Trump was elected, small business creation has surged, with new business applications increasing by 16 percent. "Expansions don't die of old age, they get murdered [by Federal Reserve policy]," former Fed Chair Ben Bernanke said. Yet absent bad fiscal, monetary, or regulatory policy, small businesses will continue to power our economy, labor market, and living standards to new heights.

Claim: "Say that under state law, systems development charges can only be spent on capital investment."
Evidence Summary: "We’re not going to stop and just say, ‘Oh this is a cost of doing business,’” Henning says. "The mayor supports homes being built at higher densities, but this must not mean cutting back on space for individual homes" Henning: "This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for" "We need a federal law," he adds. "It has to encompass all parts of the country"

Claim: "Public sentiment in favor of collective bargaining and in favor of the unions has actually gone up as these governors, I think, have overreached and gone too far and tried to destroy the labor movement."
Evidence Summary: In June, the Supreme Court ruled that government workers can’t be required to pay fees to the unions that represent them. Labor groups now face fierce anti-union campaigns from corporations and must fend off legislative efforts to weaken unions in states around the country. There’s no way to measure how the effect of that decision is reflected in the government data, if at all. Still, the largest public-sector unions argued Friday that the new numbers indicate the efforts to undermine unions have failed to gain traction.

Claim: "Charlie Crist was the only prominent Republican in the country to campaign with Barack Obama before the stimulus passed, on behalf of the stimulus."
Evidence Summary: Republican messaging on taxes peaked in mid-October, with a majority of ads mentioning the topic in some way. But only about one-third of GOP ads during the rest of the campaign mentioned taxes. Instead, Republicans ran more ads focused on immigration ― frequently using the term “illegal” and warning of the dangers of sanctuary cities. This comes as Trump meets with congressional leaders today to talk about border security and presumably come up with a plan to end the partial government shutdown. Back to the page you came from.

Claim: "If you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan."
Evidence Summary: Public opinion can shift dramatically depending on how the idea is framed. A slight majority – 56 percent – backed the idea of all Americans getting insurance from a single government plan. Support shot up to 71 percent, and opposition fell to 27 percent, when respondents were told Medicare for all could “guarantee health insurance as a right for all Americans.” But levels of support and opposition flipped if the proposal would “lead to delays in people getting some medical tests and treatments”

Claim: "Regarding her State Department email practices, my predecessors did the same thing."
Evidence Summary: U.S. District Judge Royce C. Lamberth denied a request by the conservative group Judicial Watch to make Susan Rice and Ben Rhodes sit for depositions. He agreed to Judicial Watch's request to depose the State Department about the preparation of talking points for Rice, then President Barack Obama's ambassador to the United Nations. British Prime Minister Theresa May suffered a crushing defeat Tuesday as Parliament overwhelmingly rejected her Brexit deal with the European Union -- a defeat that places the future of Brexit in doubt and intensified calls for May's ouster.

Claim: "We were promised (the stimulus) would provide 'green jobs' for Americans, but 80% of the $2 billion they spent on alternative energy went to purchase wind turbines built in China!"
Evidence Summary: The Green New Deal’s popularity will depend at least in part on its content. But here, too, the stimulus offers a dose of cold water. The main goal of the stimulus was to save the economy from a depression in the short term. But its push to move the economy towards clean energy in the long term was largely overlooked. The stimulus that Obama worked out with a Democratic-controlled Congress would end up increasing U.S. clean energy spending more than twenty-fold.

Claim: "The FL Guard has defended our freedom in Afghanistan, Iraq, and put their lives at risk; now the fed govt is going to cut their pay 20%."
Evidence Summary: The commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard said Tuesday it was “unacceptable’ that members of the service branch had been forced to work without pay during the ongoing partial government shutdown. “Thank you for continuing to stay on the watch,” Adm. Karl Schultz said in a Twitter video posted Tuesday. Hundreds of thousands of federal workers are expected to miss their second paychecks of the year. The base pay of more than 14,000 junior Coast Guard members is considered at or below the established poverty level.

Claim: "Under a law proposed by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, businesses that move into Wisconsin dont have to pay any taxes on their income for two years."
Evidence Summary: City officials estimate that the current string of dark-store lawsuits alone would require it to refund $4.1 million of tax payments. Efforts to reduce tax assessments on the local level are continuing even as businesses are seeing hefty reductions in their federal taxes from last year’s tax overhaul in Washington. Outgoing Republican Governor Scott Walker signed the bills into law in mid-December, despite criticism from Democrats that the efforts were a last-minute power grab before Democrat Tony Evers took office this month.

Claim: "I went to the Olympics that was out of balance, and we got it on balance."
Evidence Summary: "I feel like a weight has lifted off my shoulders. Like, I can concentrate on my classes. I made it on the Dean's List," said Farley. "But you never had this stability before," he said. "That was nothing compared to what we’re seeing now," he added. "I had never done so well during a college quarter," Farley said. 'I had to merge out of the way at the last second to get to the right lane. I mean, he was flying'

Claim: "As Jim Doyles Commerce secretary, Mary Burke spent $12.5 million dollars to buy a vacant lot for a company that said it had no plans to create jobs in Wisconsin and had laid off 800 workers."
Evidence Summary: Toni Preckwinkle, Illinois Comptroller Susana Mendoza, former Chicago Board of Education President Gery Chico and former U.S. Commerce Secretary Bill Daley have all found themselves under scrutiny for longstanding ties to Ald. Edward Burke. She says she has returned $116,000 in political donations she collected at a fundraiser at Burke’s home last year. She has also faced questions about why her administration hired Burke's son, Edward Burke Jr., in 2014 to serve as the training and exercise manager for the Cook County Homeland Security and Emergency Management Department.

Claim: "There is great disparity, tremendous disparity, in the (capital) funding on a per-student basis between our traditional public schools and our charter public schools."
Evidence Summary: LAUSD educators who are on strike this week say that the system is unfair. When students transfer to charter schools, they take with them their per-pupil funding, they say. But painting charter schools as at the root of the LAUSD’s fiscal issues might be misleading, said Robin Lake, the director of the Center on Reinventing Public Education. All the bad blood has a long history, however, stemming in particular back to a watershed referendum in 1978 that capped California's property taxes and slowly turned one of the best-funded state education systems into one of its worst.

Claim: "My opponent here has accepted money from Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae (and) hosted subprime mortgage seminars."
Evidence Summary: Kamala Harris, a potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidate, engaged in an intense back-and-forth with JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO James Dimon in 2012. Harris describes her role in the multistate mortgage settlement in her new book, “The Truths We Hold,” which was released Tuesday. Harris described herself as a “progressive prosecutor” who supported in equal measure harsh punishments for violent offenders. She pointed to her efforts to reduce recidivism and implement implicit bias training.

Claim: "Says with the ongoing economic downturn, child abuse is on the rise."
Evidence Summary: Britain, Sweden and Canada are the countries tackling abuse most effectively. Pakistan, Egypt and Mozambique were rated at the bottom of the list. Greater internet access, combined with the growth of young populations in many countries, has increased the number of children at risk, the report said. Only half of countries have produced or endorsed data on the proportion of the population that has experienced child abuse. Only five collect data on child sexual exploitation, a form of abuse where a child receives gifts, money or affection in return for sexual activity.

Claim: "The labor market is weak because if you count the unemployed, underemployed, and those whove stopped looking for work, the unemployment rate actually went up last month to 13.5 percent."
Evidence Summary: Unemployment rate rises to 3.9%, but only because more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon, saying the "tremendous" jobs number was partly due to companies repatriating.

Claim: "Some 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost up to 70 percent of their pensions as a result of political favoritism and backroom deals."
Evidence Summary: More than half a billion pounds of council workers’ pension money has been directly invested by local councils in arms companies implicated in Saudi Arabia’s military campaign in Yemen. Council pension funds have sizeable shareholdings in BAE Systems, Airbus, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and Northrop Grumman. Between them, 43 council pension funds directly hold shares worth £566m in the five companies. Labour MP Lloyd Russell-Moyle says some council employees would be furious to learn how their retirement income was being funded.

Claim: "Six of the nations 10 wealthiest counties, according to median income, are in and around the Washington, D.C. area."
Evidence Summary: The arrival last year of Mr. Carter and 14 other newly elected Democrats made it possible for Democrats to expand Medicaid. Now the party is aiming to take control of the state legislature this coming November. The upcoming election also sets the stage for a struggle over Virginia’s future between those who believe that prosperity lies in wooing more businesses and those who think it comes from making businesses share more of their wealth. While Virginia is the 12th largest economy in the country by gross domestic product, it ranks 26th in income equality, according to the American Community Survey.

Claim: "If theres a government shutdown, people dont get their Social Security checks."
Evidence Summary: "I'm sure the people that are on the receiving end will make adjustments," says President Trump. The government shutdown is now in its third week, with roughly 800,000 federal employees working without pay or sent home to wait on potential back pay. Without action from Congress, seniors and individuals with disabilities will take a hit, says the Better Medicare Alliance. The 2020 Health Insurance Tax (HIT) would raise premiums or reduce benefits for seniors and low-income beneficiaries on Medicare Advantage. Congress, do not let us down.

Claim: "Just like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the AFL-CIO receives dues from foreign entities associated with it."
Evidence Summary: The WEF was held in Davos, Switzerland, last year. The US government is in the fifth week of a shutdown over funding for a wall on the border of Mexico. The optics of fuelling up Air Force One when 800,000 federal employees are trying to make do without a paycheck would have been terrible at home. The WEF strives “in all its efforts to demonstrate entrepreneurship in the global public interest while upholding the highest standards of governance’. It’s hard to see how some of the leaders could have credibly lectured others from the podium.

Claim: "Says Obama opposes lower gas taxes, nuclear power, new offshore drilling and doesn't have ""new solutions"" to the energy crisis."
Evidence Summary: Wind energy reps fear that the shutdown could complicate and impede offshore wind development in the Northeast. The Interior’s preferential treatment of big oil since the shutdown began on Dec. 22 stands in contrast to the rhetoric from former agency chief Ryan Zinke, who claimed the administration doesn’t play favorites when it comes to powering America. “The facts are, Obama accomplished more on climate than any president ever, and also he failed to go as far as was necessary to give our generation a livable future,” says a Sunrise Movement spokesman.

Claim: "According to a federal report, Obamacare will increase the long-term federal deficit by $6.2 trillion."
Evidence Summary: As corporate tax receipts fell significantly last year, some Republicans began to insist that, in fact, the bill was paying for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. Total federal revenues in 2018 came in roughly where the Tax Foundation, a Washington think tank that typically projects large growth boosts from tax cuts, had forecast. The best-case scenario for proponents is that the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth, which in turn produces increasingly higher revenues several years down the road.

Claim: "In Florida, 300,000 people are going to lose their individual coverage because of Obamacare. Now those people next year, they dont have health insurance."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. Before the health care law’s major pieces went into effect during 2014, the uninsured rate peaked at 18 percent. But in the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent, not far from today's mark.

Claim: "We have a goal of 10 percent of [City of Providence] contracts going to women and minority businesses. In reality, less than 1 percent of contracts go to women and minority businesses."
Evidence Summary: Citigroup says female employees earn 29 percent less than men do. The bank also reported that, among its U.S. employees, people of color earn 7 percent less. "The numbers are difficult," said Sara Wechter, Citigroup's global head of human resources. "We should obviously be at 100 percent parity, and that's what we're striving for," she said. But businesses are also facing a real skillset problem, said Matthew Percival, the head of employment at the CBI.

Claim: "The $1.8 billion in [transportation] bonding, we dont have a repayment mechanism."
Evidence Summary: “I’m a believer in the reallocation of resources,” he said. He suggests cutting overtime pay and bonuses for workers. “Anyone who says that the bonding deal is completely off the table is just not being realistic,’ she said. The details of such a deal, proposed last year by Mayor Rahm Emanuel, aren’t clear. The idea: Raise $10 billion by selling bonds to help shore up the pension funds. They should also speak out against the ugliest parts of our financial system.

Claim: "Hospitals have already begun layoffs, a direct result of Republican inaction on Medicaid expansion."
Evidence Summary: Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began. Voters in three GOP-led states in November approved ballot measures to expand Medicaid, which has been adopted by about two-thirds of states. The administration wants to let states use waivers to reshape their Medicaid programs, but the effort could face legal challenges in the courts.. The midterms were a call to action on health care. Democrats and Republicans have deep disagreements, but progress is possible and they should try.

Claim: "We are not producing jobs. We created 80,000 jobs last month. We dont talk about the jobs that we lost. The net of it all is that we lost jobs."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended. Presidents tend to get excessive credit or blame for the economic conditions on their watch. In reality, presidents don’t control the business cycle, and to Trump’s recent frustration, they don't control the Federal Reserve, either. It's unfortunate that basic economic data have been drafted into America's all-consuming partisan wars.“We can”t work less, earn more, cut taxes and increase spending,” Powell said.

Claim: "Seven of Americas 10 wealthiest counties are in the Washington, D.C., area."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Carter has been a vocal opponent of the incentive package used to lure one of Amazon's new headquarters to Crystal City, Va. He fought against a bill overhauling the state’s energy grid, arguing that it gave away too much to Dominion, a powerful for-profit utility. The arrival last year of Mr. Carter and 14 other newly elected Democrats made it possible for Democrats to expand Medicaid. Now the party is aiming to take control of the state legislature this coming November, a goal that once seemed out of reach.

Claim: "Voter identification laws make it complicated and expensive to get an ID, essentially instituting a modern-day poll tax."
Evidence Summary: The bill would create automatic voter registration, ensure that individuals who have completed felony sentences have their voting rights restored, and expand early voting. It would also restore protections included in the 1965 Voting Rights Act, and protect against efforts by state election officials to purge voting rolls. Sen. Mitch McConnell took issue with the bill’s ban on removing people from voter rolls for not voting in a previous election, as well as a ban on voter caging, a practice in which election officials send non-forwardable mail to addresses.

Claim: "Says that even if you have no children, under Obamacare, you would still have to carry insurance that covers pediatric, maternity and newborn care even though you do not need it."
Evidence Summary: Gilliam was not expected to rule immediately at the end of hearing. At issue is a requirement under President Barack Obama's health care law that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. Obama officials included exemptions for religious organizations. The new rules set to go into effect on Monday would allow more categories of employers, including publicly traded companies, to back out of the requirement by claiming religious objections. They would also allow small businesses and other employers to object on moral grounds. Many states, however, have enacted laws that prevent ACA plans from covering abortion.

Claim: "Water transportation is the most fuel efficient, least polluting, safest, and least expensive means of moving cargo."
Evidence Summary: "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies," he says. "But they also lead to more investment in low fuel economy cars and more driving," he adds. "And that means even less progress on fighting climate change, which we know is largely man made," he warns. "The oceans are our life support system,” he says, “Giving people an alternative to the car benefits the environment and social mobility"

Claim: "Of all the people in federal prison for possession of illegal substances, 77 percent of them are not citizens of the United States."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post offered a series of “fact checks” following President Trump’s primetime address from the Oval Office on border security. One of them raised eyebrows, as it complained the president's crime stats were too comprehensive. The Washington Post tweeted in reference to the 266,000 arrests, “The number is right but misleading” It then pointed to statistics that show 158,581 arrests in 2018 were for civil immigration violations – with 66 percent of those involving people with criminal convictions, and others involving those with pending criminal charges.

Claim: "In fact, 85 percent of Oregonians voted in 2008."
Evidence Summary: "All three of my brothers still live in Oklahoma. And one of my three brothers is a Democrat," she said. "It's not like I have tested this out with some focus groups, or done a bunch of polling," she says. "But that's what's great about our Caucus. We're diverse, but we all come together when we’ve got to get things done" "There is too much at stake to take that gamble. If we are going to maintain a two-party system, the mandate needs to be a clear one”

Claim: "The CBO just said if we cut this (unemployment benefits) extension, we will kill jobs, because those people who are looking for work wont have any money to spend."
Evidence Summary: The Labor Department reported 10,454 initial claims by federal workers for the week that ended Jan. 5, doubling the previous week’s figure. The uncertainty caused by the shutdown has left many workers anxious, confused and frustrated, said Ryan Baugh, a furloughed statistician in the Office of Immigration Statistics in the Department of Homeland Security. “We just don’t know when it will be over, so we don't know how to plan,” Baugh said.

Claim: "Sarah Palin ""got more votes running for mayor of Wasilla, Alaska, than Joe Biden got running for president of the United States."""
Evidence Summary: After 2016, I recruited, built the team, and launched Andrew Gillum for Florida Governor. Andrew should be commended for his courage to run and offer Florida voters a real choice in the primary. No one thought a mayor, who might as well have lived in another state in the eyes of South Florida Democrats, would have a shot in hell at winning a statewide primary until he did it. Joe Biden, by contrast, has already had two tries, each of which was an abysmal failure. He had to abandon his most recent effort, in 2008, after getting less than 1 percent in the Iowa caucuses.

Claim: "When total Sandy spending is added up, its more than the annual budget for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. And its more than twice the annual budget of the U.S. Energy Department."
Evidence Summary: Pew report highlights how poorly disaster spending is tracked. Eight of Fema’s most expensive years have occurred in the past decade. Last year, the federal government spent more than $300bn on disaster recovery. Some experts have called for more to be done on the federal level to shore up struggling states. The National Flood Insurance Program, on which more than 5 million residents and businesses rely, has been deep in debt for years. The program finances rebuilding in areas again and again, without assessing risk or incentivizing better preparation for the next flood.

Claim: "Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid ""said, quote, 'I can't stand John McCain.' """
Evidence Summary: Former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid spoke out about President Donald Trump in a rare interview published Wednesday. “We’ve had some bad ones, and there’s not even a close second to him,” Reid told The New York Times Magazine. Reid also questioned why former attorney general Jeff Sessions and former White House chief of staff John Kelly did not leave Trump's administration sooner. "I’d say, ‘Go screw yourself.’ I could not look my children in the eye," Reid said.

Claim: "Hank Johnson voted against legislation to help first responders, teachers, vets and troops."
Evidence Summary: The ACLU of Iowa praised Reynolds’ comments on Tuesday. “Denying Iowans the right to vote does nothing to keep our communities safer or make our democracy stronger,” an ACLU official said. Jones said he is seeking bipartisan solutions to the shutdown, saying the debate “is just nothing but political noise right now” Jones’s Republican colleague in the Senate, Richard C. Shelby, said he would tell furloughed federal workers to “get your Democrat friends to the table and negotiate”

Claim: "No, I did not (have illegal immigrants working at his mansion)."
Evidence Summary: "These migrants aren’t a threat to anybody, not even Donald Trump," he said. "It just came at a very opportune time. I said let's go out and see the press you can tell them the importance of the wall" Trump raised eyebrows on Saturday after he called into Jeanine Pirro’s Fox News show and did not specifically deny he was ever a Russian agent. “I never worked for Russia and you know that answer better than anybody. I never working for Russia. … I think it's a disgrace that you even ask that question.”

Claim: "In Texas, weve had three ISIS-related incidents already."
Evidence Summary: A Texan who says he offered to work as an English teacher for the Islamic State said he witnessed executions and crucifixions during the three plus years he spent with the terrorist group. There were more than 8,500 terrorist attacks worldwide in 2017, according to a State Department report, though the total declined 23 percent from the previous year. The report also found that terror threats had grown more complex as ISIS lost territory and sought to inspire simpler but still deadly attacks on Western targets. Over two thirds of ISIS recruits were born in the United States, and the other one-third have lived in the country for decades.

Claim: "When the Fair Tax becomes law, it will be like waving a magic wand releasing us from pain and unfairness."
Evidence Summary: Freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's comments about a 70% tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy over who does and doesn't understand how America’s tax system works. Polling shows the UK increasingly supports higher taxes to enable higher spending on health and education. The majority of Americans, including 45% of Republicans, support Ocacio-C Cortez's proposal. The Oxfam report calculates that a global 1% wealth tax would raise £325bn a year – enough to educate every child not in school.

Claim: "John McCain would ""reduce oversight of health insurance."""
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Once Americans hear some of the common attacks that conservatives deploy against government- run insurance schemes, they get more skittish about the idea. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like “Medicare for all’ These days, Democrats still have a lot of work to do to make health care more affordable and accessible for all. The GOP failed to pursue any of these leads. The abolishment of the ACA now would just send us back to where we began.

Claim: "Says U.S. Rep. Steve Daines, R-Mont., opposes a vote on his own legislation that he proposed just a few months ago."
Evidence Summary: The bill was introduced by a group of Republicans representing the ideological spectrum in the caucus. The bill is sponsored by Ohio Sen. Rob Portman, who has introduced the legislation every year since he was elected to the Senate in 2010. All Democrats present voted to advance the bill. The same eleven GOP senators voted alongside all Democrats present to proceed to the resolution on Tuesday, allowing debate on the measure to begin. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., introduced the House resolution that will be voted on Thursday.

Claim: "Crist sent his ""top policy staffer to the House Committee to testify in support of the proposal,"" then vetoed the bill."
Evidence Summary: No House Republicans spoke on the House floor in favor of the Trump administration's decision. Graham, Tillis, Coons and Booker originally introduced bills in the summer of 2017 after Trump started to criticize the special counsel. They agreed on a compromise version in early 2018, and the panel approved it with the support of four Republicans. One of those Republicans, former Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake, tried to force McConnell to pass the bill in December by saying he would vote against all judicial nominees at the end of the year.

Claim: "Recent census data shows that the average American family spends over $13,000 a year for health care coverage."
Evidence Summary: During the fourth quarter of 2018, 14 percent of Americans were uninsured. That’s up from 11 percent at the end of 2016, and the increase has been steady over the months since then. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year, 17.9 percent of the economy or $10,739 per person. The number of people working in health care more than doubled in the last 18 years.

Claim: "I spend a lot of time in Iowa, and believe it or not, in Ottumwa, Iowa, this is the heartland, the newspaper, the regular newspaper for Ottumwa, Iowa, is (a) bilingual newspaper."
Evidence Summary: The erstwhile congressman and Texas Senate candidate is driving through some sparsely populated parts of the Southwest by himself. He's chatting up waitresses and motel managers about the future of the country, and writing about it in a literary online diary. A newspaper is an essential tool, says Marie Ann Donovan, chair of the Illinois Board of Higher Education. "It entertains, educates, broadens my perspectives, reveals new facts," she says. "We’ve been waiting for four long years," says Ryan Lucas, NPR News, Washington.

Claim: "Since Scott Walker took office as governor in January 2011, there has been an increase of 33,200 jobs in Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: Regardless of what Walker does next, he leaves the governor's office having fundamentally altered the state. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn factory. Critics say Foxconn won't deliver on its promises and that the $3 billion Walker pledged to the company was too much. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest and we were trying to do the best that we could for the people," Walker says.

Claim: "Buono voted 154 times to raise our taxes -- like the sales tax, the income tax, health care taxes, even small business taxes."
Evidence Summary: The top marginal federal income tax rate (the rate paid by the highest earners) rose to 63 percent in 1932, spiked at 92 percent in 1953 and didn’t fall to pre-1932 levels until 1982. In 1980, the top rate kicked in at earnings over $108,000 (that’s roughly $350,000 in 2018 dollars), not $10 million. Ocasio-Cortez dunked on Walker three hours later Tuesday in a tweet of her own in which she used the Spanish word for grandmother.

Claim: "Phoenix, Ariz., is the No. 2 kidnapping capital of the world."
Evidence Summary: Crime in El Paso on the US side of the border remains relatively low. Violent crimes have fallen sharply from about 6,500 in 1993 to around 3,000 today. Beto O’Rourke, the rising star of the Democratic party, lauded El Paso as the “safest city in America” as part of his senatorial election campaign in November. The 72 yellow school buses that traveled through Atlanta's streets Wednesday had anti-human-trafficking messages plastered on their sides.

Claim: "From 1972 until 2011, the number of EPA employees increased by 107 percent while the number of total federal personnel decreased by 15 percent."
Evidence Summary: EPA said in a statement that it is directing "its resources to the most significant and impactful cases" But the 166 cases referred for prosecution in the last fiscal year is the lowest number since 1988, when Ronald Reagan was president and 151 cases were referred. EPA efforts to prosecute polluters reached 592 criminal referrals under President Bill Clinton in 1998. "You don't get closer to the core of EPA's mission than enforcing the law," Jeff Ruch, PEER's executive director, told The Associated Press.

Claim: "While Arkansas seniors depend on Social Security and Medicare, Sen. Mark Pryor supports an overhaul so they couldnt get Social Security until they turn 68 or 69."
Evidence Summary: Survey: 70 percent of adults say they'd support opening the federal health care program for the elderly to every American. But it becomes a political loser if people think it would lead to treatment delays. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. The Equity Lab found that older workers most likely would have to take money out of their 401(k) plans before retirement simply to meet living expenses. Many will have to find a new job, but that job will pay on average 25 percent less.

Claim: "A report by the health insurance industry ""ignores some of the key policies that are part of the Senate Finance Committee bill."""
Evidence Summary: Andy Slavitt: Americans want more health security and more affordable coverage. He says they don't want insurance companies to discriminate against them if they have a preexisting medical condition. Democrats will need to quickly introduce bills that reinforce the ACA’s original protections, he says. Slavitt is a former health care industry executive who ran the Affordable Care Act and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services from 2015 to 2017. The U.S. is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage.

Claim: Wayne Powell has a stated position of having no objection to taking `In God We Trust off of U.S. currency.
Evidence Summary: The Indiana bill calls for both the national motto to be posted in public schools and for high schools to add a biblical studies component to world religion classes. The bill would also allow public schools to teach creationism and offer a survey course on world religions. "I think it’s good to remind people of our national motto and that God is who we really place our trust in," Sen. Dennis Kruse said. This year, similar bills have been introduced in Alaska, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, Mississippi, Nebraska, New York and South Carolina.

Claim: "There are about 120,000 solar energy jobs in the United States, but only 1,700 of them are in Georgia."
Evidence Summary: The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers’ claims jumped. The healthy economy and a severe cold snap in the Northeast drove up demand for heating and cooking fuel. The early estimates reinforce the sense that the U.S. faces a steep challenge in trying to rein in greenhouse gas emissions that are second only to China’s. The number of inbound cargo shipments through the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach in December was up 19.2% from the previous year.

Claim: "We dont know anything about Hillary in terms of religion. Now, shes been in the public eye for years and years, and yet theres no theres nothing out there."
Evidence Summary: More than anything else, Harris’s greatest vulnerabilities lie in her professional background. More recently, she faced allegations of anti-Catholic bigotry for denigrating the Knights of Columbus. At times, she showed off a droll wit: "How do you debate someone who isn't interested in civility or in facts?" Warren avoided not only mentions of Trump but also other potential Democratic candidates, by name at least. She called CNN reporter Jim Acosta a "smartass" and started insulting him.

Claim: "Police officers in this state have that right, to check the immigration status of people they arrest."
Evidence Summary: Roxana Orellana Santos was detained Tuesday, less than a week before a court date to determine the extent of damages Frederick County owes. Santos sued after Maryland deputies approached her as she ate lunch in 2008 without any cause; her attorneys say it was "for eating while brown" A federal judge wrote in 2017 that it was crucial Santos remained in the country until the case was settled. According to a report last year in the Los Angeles Times, the problem of ICE detaining U.S. citizens is widespread.

Claim: "Says only seven percent of 2009s stimulus bill went toward transportation projects, yet they created over one-third of the bills total jobs."
Evidence Summary: A NIRPC task force on the issue has been looking for a potential solution at the federal level. The commission also approved a 2019 budget of $3.2 million, 16 percent less than last year’s. Spending on salaries is down, Warner said, because some longer-term, higher-paid employees retired last year. Some state agencies are delaying bidding certain transportation projects due to uncertainty around when and what the federal appropriations they typically rely upon will be. “The market is worried about it because we’re going above and beyond the time frame that will begin to have a negative economic impact,” said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Spartan Capital Securities.

Claim: "Under President Obama: $4,000 tax hike on middle-class families."
Evidence Summary: Freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's comments about a 70 percent tax rate on the wealthy set off a controversy over who does and doesn’t understand how America’s tax system works. What has been lost in the dust-up is that the wealthy pay relatively little in taxes compared with their peers in other developed countries, writes Julian Zelizer. Democrats now have a big opportunity to design and advance a progressive economic agenda that could become a reality after 2020, he says.

Claim: A Trump television ad shows Mexicans swarming over our southern border.
Evidence Summary: How closely does President Trump's rhetoric about the threat at the border match reality on the ground? This week, we traveled to both sides of the border from Tijuana to San Diego to get a first-hand look. Over a five-year period ending 2016, a little over half a million Mexicans illegally entered the U.S. through the southern border. That was down from 2.05 million during five years ending 2007, according to Pew. While there has been an increase in Central American migrants arriving recently, a vast majority have claimed asylum, a legal mode of immigration.

Claim: "In Chicago, school is never canceled because of winter weather."
Evidence Summary: A district guide advises parents that “students are expected to attend school every day.” The Illinois School Code no longer requires a minimum of five hours of classroom instruction for a day to count as a full school day. The code allows the length of the instructional day that is counted toward the required 176 days of instruction to be determined locally, including counting time students participate outside of school. Now, if school is canceled due to bad weather, the students and staff get the day off but have to make up the day later.

Claim: California cut about $1.3 billion in child care (during the recession). Weve only reinvested about $300 million.
Evidence Summary: Governor's budget includes a $2 billion plan to support low-income children. Much of the money will go toward the construction of childcare facilities and kindergarten classrooms. If policies like paid parental leave and subsidized child care enabled more mothers to work, the U.S. could add five million prime-age workers to its labor force, according to a new economic letter from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The California policy would be the nation’s biggest test of the idea that longer leave, by encouraging parents not to quit their jobs, can help economic growth.

Claim: "Donna Shalala left me with 12 million doses of smallpox vaccine and I created enough to vaccinate every man, woman and child against smallpox in America."
Evidence Summary: "Prescription medicines are not luxury goods. We don't want to need them!" Harris tells the story of her first time trying a case in the courtroom. "I’ve been very pleased with the response of the pharmaceutical industry who obviously take this incredibly seriously," she says. “I think it’s really hard to be a woman running for president. You gotta thread the needle. If you’re too smart, it counts against you. if you”re too emotional, itcounts against you," Harris says.

Claim: "This rule could prevent children under 18 from using such tools as a power screwdriver, a milking machine or something as simple as a wheelbarrow on the family farm . . ."
Evidence Summary: In England and Wales, you can only get married below the age of 18 with parental permission. The age at which we are allowed to do lots of other things has not been going down, but up. If you want to use a tanning booth, buy cigarettes or get a tattoo you now need to be 18. It seems odd to suggest that people are responsible enough to vote at 16, but not buy sparklers. Overall, society appears to think people are growing up more slowly than they were in 1969.

Claim: "Under the compromise tax agreement, 99.7% of American families will not pay 1 nickel in an estate tax."
Evidence Summary: In their major tax overhaul passed December 2017, Republicans significantly hiked the threshold for the federal estate tax. Saez and Zucman initially evaluated a proposal at Warren's request to levy a 1 percent wealth tax on income above $10 million. They have often referred to this provision, which affects several families a year, as the "death tax" Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., offered a plan to expand the estate tax on the wealthy, including a 77 percent tax rate on billionaires’ estates.

Claim: "Its commercial vehicles, 18 wheelers and above that cause 90 plus percent of the damages on our highways and bridges."
Evidence Summary: Pedestrian deaths have been at a 25-year high, according to the Governors Highway Safety Association. A 2017 study found that an average of 13 people a day were killed by cars between 2005 and 2014. Kolosh said he hopes the council's analysis will allay unfounded fears, and remind people of more common dangers. "We now have to do a far better job of building our infrastructure to accommodate all road users," he said. "Historically, roadways have been designed to make it as efficient as possible for the vehicle"

Claim: "After every major conflict ... what happened was that we ultimately hollowed out the force, largely by doing deep, across-the-board cuts."
Evidence Summary: The parading of military muscle still permeates the US’s public realm. President Eisenhower termed the anti-democratic “military-industrial complex’ Its endless aggrandisement boosts military spending and upholds the cause of an American presence across the globe. The big increase in the defense appropriations for fiscal 2019 is almost all going to the military. Money cannot fix the military’S lack of imagination, says Rep. Keith Ellison. The U.S. needs to make short-term interventions and much more longer-term ones to try and understand the complexities.

Claim: "Ultimately, after an exhaustive investigation, the National Transportation Safety Board concluded that a Minneapolis bridge collapsed in 2007 because of an original design flaw dating back to the 1960s."
Evidence Summary: The government has asked two engineering professors to urgently investigate the tower’s safety. A collapse in 2013 killed at least 72 people in Mumbai. The instability of the east span was discovered a day after Gov. Kean announced plans to demolish it. Taking that part of the bridge apart piece by piece could lead to collapse, Tappan Zee Constructors determined.. The introduction of steel tariffs by the U.S. raised the costs of an infrastructure project in Detroit by approximately 13 percent.

Claim: "The truth is David Cicilline voted for tougher laws against child abusers, domestic abusers and abusers of the elderly."
Evidence Summary: Democratic Rep. David Cicilline of Rhode Island is the chairman of the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee. He is in charge of shaping the messaging for House Democrats. He said in an interview with "Fox News Sunday" that Democrats have a "big and diverse" caucus. "I really think it's premature for Democrats to be talking about what the remedy ought to be before we know the full body of evidence," he said. "David spends every day in Washington fighting to make our state better," Gina Raimondo, D-R.I., said.

Claim: "I had prostate cancer, five, six years ago. My chance of surviving prostate cancer, and thank God I was cured of it, in the United States, 82%. My chances of surviving prostate cancer in England, only 44% under socialized medicine."
Evidence Summary: According to the National Institutes of Health, African American men have a 15 percent chance of getting prostate cancer. Their chances of dying are also higher - 4 percent among black men compared with 2 percent among white men. Last month, researchers at the University of California at San Francisco found even those considered low-risk were twice as likely to die as patients from other demographics. In many countries now, more than two-thirds of patients diagnosed with cancer are alive five years post diagnosis. Every year of survival gained buys time for even better treatments to emerge.

Claim: "Your Congressman, Charlie Bass, took over $166,000 from Big Oil."
Evidence Summary: U.S. Rep.-elect Ross Spano had more than $75,000 in contributions flagged by federal elections officials for potentially insufficient reporting. The campaign cash was bundled by Club for Growth, a conservative special-interest group that often funnels small-dollar contributions to candidates it supports. Tuesday was the deadline for elected officials, candidates and political groups to file campaign finance reports for the quarter ending Dec. 31. With consolidated elections coming up on April 2, money has been flowing into and out of campaign funds for Southland municipal officials.

Claim: "Weve been able to create about 60,000 net new jobs in Virginia since February."
Evidence Summary: The U.S. economy gained 312,000 jobs in December versus 176,000 expected, a robust gain that indicates the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash. The monthly jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce.Stock markets liked the report, with the Dow rising 1.6 percent in early trading. The just-ended year saw 2.4 million new jobs created. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion.

Claim: "If you have an investment for your child's education or own a mutual fund or a stock in a retirement plan, (Obama) is going to raise your taxes."
Evidence Summary: The Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a left-leaning think tank, published a report on Wednesday finding that a 1 percent wealth tax on the wealthiest 0.1 percent of Americans would raise $1.3 trillion over a decade. But conservatives have warned that high taxes on the very rich will stifle growth, lead to capital flight, and produce relatively minor revenue gains. Earlier this month, the right-leaning Tax Foundation found that Ocasio-Cortez's plan for a 70 percent tax rate would either only raise $189 billion in revenue.

Claim: "Corporate profits are up, CEO pay is up, but average wages of Americans are flat."
Evidence Summary: Wages in manufacturing suffered one of the largest declines in real wages, which slipped 2.4 percent last year. Transportation witnessed the biggest dip, with real wages losing 3.9 percent compared with a year earlier. The benefits of the giant corporate tax cut went largely into the pockets of top executives and big investors. Corporate stock buybacks fueled a temporary stock market boom, but its benefits didn’t trickle down because more than 80% of stocks are owned by the wealthiest 10% of Americans.

Claim: "Bill White ... supports the ObamaCare socialized medicine plan, as well as Cap and Trade legislation that would kill thousands of Texas jobs."
Evidence Summary: In the Obamacare lawsuit, the Trump administration last year said it could not defend all of the law, including its popular protections for people with pre-existing conditions. House Democrats say they're getting involved on behalf of the millions of Americans with health issues who would have trouble getting insurance without the ACA's protections. “I’m just conservative in my values and views and a lot of the things Mr Trump believes, I agree with” says Celie Locke, who backed Trump almost as soon as he announced his candidacy.

Claim: F: The grade given to Florida for college affordability under Jeb Bushs leadership.
Evidence Summary: CNN.com's John Sutter asks readers why they should give President Trump an F grade. Sutter: Almost everything Trump does is organized around his own safety, and the rest of the government is left trying to manage itself. He says it is thanks only to the innate strength of the U.S. economy that it has not fallen into a tailspin. Satter: Almost everyone else, however, is giving it their best effort to get the best out of Trump.

Claim: "Says Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett is responsible for the roughly $7,800 I pay in property taxes per year."
Evidence Summary: City officials estimate that the current string of dark-store lawsuits alone would require it to refund $4.1 million of tax payments. Efforts to reduce tax assessments on the local level are continuing even as businesses are seeing hefty reductions in their federal taxes from last year’s tax overhaul in Washington. Reporting by the Tribune and ProPublica Illinois have established chronic inequities in property valuations. The calculations tend to benefit property owners who hire powerful attorneys, often at the ultimate expense of property owners in low-income and minority communities.

Claim: "As Houstons mayor, I helped our area lead the nation in job growth."
Evidence Summary: Uran said when he began his first term as mayor 12 years ago the city had an economic development director. “I thought we had a pretty good opportunity there,” Uran said. Hatcher said he was amazed that Freeman-Wilson drew criticism from a local newspaper after her election to the National League of Cities post. "The campaign for mayor is about much, much more than one individual or any one episode," Hatcher says of the campaign for South Bend mayor. "We share their deep sense of loss and anger," Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner says of Jazmine's family.

Claim: "Americans will spend more on taxes in 2014 than they will on food, clothing and housing combined."
Evidence Summary: In the summer of 2017, the budget office projected that the economy would grow by 2 percent in the 2018 fiscal year, and that personal, corporate and payroll taxes would add up to $3.24 trillion. Then the tax cuts passed, growth accelerated and tax revenues fell $183 billion — or 5.6 percent — short of that projection. Republicans, particularly in the Trump administration, sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself — even when economists outside the administration released models contradicting them.

Claim: Heroin and prescription opioids are the number one cause of accidental or preventable death in Wisconsin.
Evidence Summary: Wisconsin saw a 35 percent increase in fatal opioid overdoses between 2015 and 2016. The CDC’s Karin Mack and colleagues analyzed death certificates from all 50 states. They took note of which drugs were in a person's system at the time of death, including antidepressants, opioids, anxiety drugs, heroin and cocaine. Many of those who died had more than one drug in their system atThe time. The lifetime risk of dying from an accidental fall are now 1 in 114, up from 1 in 119 just a year ago.

Claim: "You know, we spent $3-million to study the DNA of bears in Montana."
Evidence Summary: Scientists based at Edinburgh Zoo are cooperating to create a genetics laboratory in Cambodia to fight the illegal ivory trade. While trying to save elephants, they have found ivory from another animal that is now extinct. The lab is working with three partners in a project funded by the UK government's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. The only thing we’re interested in is the giant sheds where sometimes tens of thousands of animals are housed in horrible conditions for a very short life before brutal slaughter.

Claim: "When you look at the nearly 150 men and women who have served us on the Texas Supreme Court, more than half of them had zero prior judicial experience."
Evidence Summary: The president’s record-shattering 84 confirmed judges are 76 percent male and 91 percent white, per the Federal Judicial Center. Not renominated this week was Thomas Farr, the mastermind behind North Carolina's racist voter suppression laws. Farr would have been only the 3,130th white man to sit on the federal courts, but his nomination was killed in December by GOP Sens. Tim Scott and Jeff Flake. There is already a strong presence of ethnic minority judges in tribunals, county courts and among district judges.

Claim: "Over the last 15 months, weve added more than 2 million jobs in the private sector. Thats far in excess of what it was in the comparable period after the last recession."
Evidence Summary: Businesses that are confident about the economy are growing and creating new jobs at an accelerated pace, increasing the demand for employees. That explains why wages were up 3.2 percent year over year in December – the third straight month that number has exceeded 3 percent and the largest monthly increases since April 2009. That’s great news for anyone who works for a living. But it’'s presumably a less welcome development for those who get paid to prognosticate about theeconomy – at least those who have bought into the fanciful notion that stock market fluctuations.

Claim: "It took Obama six months to pick out a family dog, but he's cramming health care reform down the country's throat in a fraction of that time."
Evidence Summary: The midterms were a call to action on health care. Democrats and Republicans have deep disagreements, but progress is possible and they should try. Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act. They complained about the law nonstop that entire time, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans. The abolishment of the ACA now wouldn’t just send us back to where we began. It would be a mistake to repeal and replace Obamacare without a plan for anything better.

Claim: "While (Barack) Obama preaches we are our brothers keeper, his brother and aunt live in real poverty in Kenya."
Evidence Summary: Liberty University President Jerry Falwell Jr. made the comments in an interview with the Washington Post. Falwell defended his consistent support for President Donald Trump and even claimed it may be “immoral’ to not support him. He also said there was nothing Trump could do that would endanger support from himself and other evangelicals. But it's Falwell’s comments about the poor that are getting the most attention. "It's such a distortion of the teachings of Jesus to say that what he taught us to do personally," Falwell said.

Claim: "During my administration, for example, we boosted U.S. exports to Canada and Mexico by about 50 percent. That supports about 2.8 million American jobs."
Evidence Summary: Over 4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump took office. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. African-American, Asian-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have all hit record lows under this president’s leadership. But even with the unarguably impressive improvements under Trump, he has a way to go before he can fulfil his promise of being ‘the greatest jobs president that God ever created’

Claim: "If you shut down Amtraks Northeast Corridor, its estimated youd have to add seven new lanes to I-95 to accommodate the increased traffic."
Evidence Summary: The L train shutdown was scheduled to begin April 27 and last 15 months. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which operates the subway, had said the closing was necessary to repair damage from Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Under a new plan unveiled by Mr. Cuomo workers would use a different design to repair the tunnel and some work could be done on nights and weekends. “We all knew the worst thing we could do was a complete shutdown. We couldn’t find another scenario that was really safe and made sense’’

Claim: "As governor, Maggie Hassan first proposed a $1 billion spending increase."
Evidence Summary: Newly inaugurated Kansas Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly set out to make good on her promise to undo eight years of Republican leadership by hiring state workers. The big items on her agenda: expanding Medicaid, boosting school funding and hiring more workers at the state level. In addition to allocating $80.7bn for K-12 schools and community colleges, the governor’s budget includes $500m to encourage local governments to build emergency shelters and navigation centers for the homeless. It's unclear how much focus he'll put on government-run health care in his first term.

Claim: "Just on Jan. 1 of this year, there were 40,000 new laws put on the books in one day."
Evidence Summary: The number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits fell, but federal workers' claims jumped. 'We are beyond happy to have Livy home': The 23-year-old woman who went missing in Boston on Saturday has been found, and her alleged abductor has been charged. 'You can be jailed for striking against the federal government': TSA and FAA employees don't actually have that much leverage. 'A global shift to a plant-based diet is a win-win for both human health and the environment': More humans should be eating more plants.

Claim: "At the beginning of World War II, we had a relatively small army, smaller than Portugals."
Evidence Summary: The new Republican administration in Washington issued a blunt warning. Unless Europe quickly set up its own unified army, the U.S. would be compelled to undertake an “agonizing reappraisal” of its commitment to defend its European allies. The year was 1953, and the main target of American ire was France, whose delay in ratifying the European...                "But countries are now stepping up, and they can well afford to."                “Believe it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about”

Claim: "Bernie Sanders voted with Republicans to protect the Minutemen, a hate group that used military tactics against our community."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Steve King asked The New York Times when phrases like white supremacy and white nationalism became offensive. “It gives me no pleasure to tell you that we now have a President of the United States who is a racist,” Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., said at a Martin Luther King Jr. Day event in South Carolina. Republican National Committee Chair, Ronna McDaniel responded to Sanders' speech on Twitter, calling his comments “disgusting and wrong”

Claim: "Since the governor took office, Oregons unemployment rate has dropped to its lowest point in three years."
Evidence Summary: Mr. Newsom’s new spending plans take advantage of a growing surplus he projects for the state. “Disasters and recovery are no time for politics. I’m already taking action to modernize and manage our forests and emergency responses,” Newsom wrote. At one point, apparently speaking extemporaneously as he walked across a stage, he offered state financial assistance for workers furloughed in the partial shutdown of the federal government. "I applaud the president for re-evaluating what he's doing," Newsom said.

Claim: "Rep. Carol Shea-Porter votes with Nancy Pelosis Democrats 95 percent of the time, but Frank Guinta will take on both parties and has independent New Hampshire values."
Evidence Summary: Republicans were supposed to have 200 members, but the “winner’ of the scandalous election in North Carolina’s 9th District, Mark Harris, has not been seated. Four of the dissidents against Pelosi voted for Illinois Rep. Cheri Bustos, the incoming Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee chairwoman. Michigan GOP Rep. Justin Amash received a couple of actual boos when he voted for his fellow idiosyncratic member sitting immediately next to him, Kentucky Rep. Thomas Massie, instead of McCarthy.

Claim: "State budget cuts for local schools resulted in nearly 4,000 educator layoffs"
Evidence Summary: The teachers, who have been without a contract for nearly a year, walked off the job on Monday. LAUSD officials have kept all 1,200 of its schools open on a limited basis with skeleton staff of administrators and substitute teachers. State fiscal analysts project tax revenues will grow by about 2.5 percent each year for the new two-year budget starting in July. But the state's troubled Department of Child Services is seeking about two-thirds of that money to keep paying for hundreds of new child welfare caseworkers added over the last few years.

Claim: "Says Charlie Crist was pro-life, pro-gun and vehemently anti-tax."
Evidence Summary: Republican messaging on taxes peaked in mid-October, with a majority of ads mentioning the topic in some way. Only about one-third of GOP ads during the rest of the campaign mentioned taxes. Instead, Republicans ran more ads focused on immigration, frequently using the term “illegal” and warning of the dangers of sanctuary cities. (Mentions of the gang MS-13 were relatively rare, according to the analysis, appearing in less than 10 percent ofGOP ads.)From Media Matters: “Even on an issue for which Republicans have a clear legislative record, they largely spent their energy stoking fear”

Claim: "You are prohibited from walking into the Capitol with a gun, but you can go after the County Commission or the School Board."
Evidence Summary: Pinellas County Sheriff Bob Gualtieri, the panel's chairman, argued last month for the change. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he said. The only teachers allowed to arm themselves are current or former police officers, active military members or Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps instructors. Thirteen of the state's 67 districts arm non-teaching employees, mostly in rural parts of theState. In Tamaqua, the firearms policy approved in September says teachers and other employees can volunteer to carry concealed, district-issued guns.

Claim: "Of all the illegals in America, more than half come through Arizona."
Evidence Summary: "We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected, undocumented, unchecked...” Barrack Obama, 2005," Trump wrote on Sunday, quoting the former president in 2005. Obama made the remarks at a press conference with then-Florida GOP Sen. Mel Martinez, as part of a bipartisan effort to address illegal immigration. "The most vulnerable point of entry that we have into this country is the southern border," Obama said. "We all agree on the need to better secure the border and to punish employers who choose to hire illegal immigrants," Obama added.

Claim: "Says Did you know that the #KeystoneXL project is expected to create 20,000 American jobs, including more than 800 in Oregon?"
Evidence Summary: The Keystone XL project is being delayed by a federal court that found the Trump Administration didn't fully consider the environmental effects when it approved the permit. The Bayou bridge pipeline is due to pass directly through Lousiana’s Atchafalaya river basin, carrying crude oil from the Dakota Access pipeline to the Gulf Coast. Richard Shaw, a US Department of Agriculture scientist, has spent a decade digging one-metre (4ft) holes across New York. Joe Whittle visits the camp where a group of rugged, ragtag activists are leading resistance to the project.

Claim: "In the 1990s, the Biden Crime Bill added 100,000 cops to America's streets. As a result, murder and violent crime rates went down eight years in a row."
Evidence Summary: Former Chicago Public Schools CEO Paul Vallas said 80 percent of the consent decree was “common sense,” such as more training and better equipment for officers. He also slammed Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s administration for allowing the Police Department to shrink during his tenure. Former Vice President Joe Biden was the head of the Senate's Judiciary Committee when the 1994 crime bill was passed and signed into law. New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker was central to the passage of the criminal justice overhaul package and is certain to tout it if he launches a presidential campaign.

Claim: "Rhode Island will become just the second state to mandate the vaccine and the only state to do so by regulatory fiat, without public debate, and without consideration from the elected representatives of the people."
Evidence Summary: The World Health Organization has ranked vaccine hesitancy as one of the top 10 health threats in the world for 2019. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the percentage of children who are unvaccinated has quadrupled since 2001. More than 100,000 American infants and toddlers have received no vaccines whatsoever, and millions more have received only some crucial shots. The anti-vaxxers, as they are colloquially known, have hundreds of websites promoting their message, a roster of tech- and media-savvy influencers.

Claim: "In Georgia, hard-earned lottery dollars are doled out to the scion[s] of wealthy families."
Evidence Summary: The rich are coddled by their birth and by our tax code. They’re buoyed by our admiration: “makers’ and “doers” and winners of philanthropy awards. We clap and call them “job creators,” even when the only jobs involved are for lawyers and the kind of accountants who know the differential tax-sheltering benefits between the Cayman Islands and Cyprus. I think about how we view the rich, so often born into the aeries of luxury, as inherently deserving of their station.

Claim: "The president won the youth vote 3 to1, but his numbers have dropped 20, 30 percent among the youth."
Evidence Summary: South Carolina saw a 30.1 percent increase in the amount of Hispanic eligible voters between 2014 and 2017. In November’s midterm elections, Democrats won two-thirds of voters ages 18 to 29, and 71 percent of millennial women. The Economist reports that baby boomers — those born between 1946 and 1964 — who have been the United States’ largest age cohort for more than five decades will, in 2019, be outnumbered by millennials. Young Americans’ opinions will have an effect on politics only to the extent they turn out to vote.

Claim: "Minnesotas advantage in economic growth has been having Republicans in charge of at least one part of government for all but two years, while Wisconsin Democrats for many years before 2011 controlled both legislative chambers and the governorship."
Evidence Summary: Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner is leaving office after four years in office. Bruce Pritzker, House Speaker Michael Madigan and Senate President John Cullerton will replace him. John Avlon: Democrats will succeed or fail based on a set of key metrics. He says they must address pension debt, credit ratings, job and wage growth, poverty and crime rates.Avlon: Both major parties ought to recognize the need to stanch an exodus of business and residents from Illinois.

Claim: "In the last 6 years, there have been 420 elections for State Senator and State Representative. Only three incumbents have been defeated!"
Evidence Summary: North Carolina House race marred by fraud may not be resolved until the fall. ‘I’m running because I think Kansas wants a conservative fighter in the United States Senate,’ LaTurner said. “We just live in a red state here,” said Alex Sink, a former Democratic state official who once narrowly lost a bid for governor.” “I think I have come up with a way for President Trump to end this shutdown and get his wall. It doesn't take much to figure this out so here it goes”

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney said we are going to have to live with high gas prices, its a good thing because it will reduce consumption, we dont want to produce any more gasoline."
Evidence Summary: Romney told a tech summit he thinks Trump will "solidly" win re-election in 2020. In an op-ed for The Salt Lake Tribune in June 2018, Romney admitted his first year in office "exceeded [his] expectations" Romney noted that he has had plenty of disagreements with Trump's decisions as well — such as his stance on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and broad-based tariffs. "People ask me why I feel compelled to express my disagreements with the president," Romney said.

Claim: "Were seeing now 30 straight months of private-sector job growth, 4.6 million jobs created."
Evidence Summary: The economy added more than a quarter-million new jobs in December. That's the strongest job creation in two years, highly unusual for an economy in its ninth year of expansion. The labor market gains have been widespread, with unemployment rates for black, Hispanic, and female jobseekers reaching record lows. Small business job creation engine is so strong that there are now 6.9 million unfilled jobs in the country, surpassing the number of people unemployed last year for the first time in history. Stock markets liked the report, with the Dow rising 1.6 percent in early trading.

Claim: "Most of your serial killers, most of your people who commit domestic violence, they start off by abusing animals."
Evidence Summary: "All these guys do is think and hatch plans and figure out how to get weapons. It's like a molotov cocktail waiting to explode" "These are a group of people who are among the worst terrorists in the world" "We must deal with the flow of illegal guns onto our streets and the trauma that is turning our young people into victims and perpetrators of violence" "It's a societal problem that people do tolerate disorder and minor assaults on the police to an unacceptable extent"

Claim: "Says Ted Strickland supported giving $150 billion to Iranian regime that persecutes women, Christians and gays."
Evidence Summary: Several prominent Texas Republicans, including Sen. Ted Cruz and Texas Land commissioner George P. Bush, have spoken out on Shafi's behalf. The Texas GOP executive committee passed a non-discrimination resolution that affirms and supports “all Americans’ right to practice their religion” "Let’s show everybody, this is the Republican Party of Texas," said Tarrant County GOP chairman Brian Bledsoe. "I don’t have a whip count," Bradford said of Shafi, who he described as "a known commodity"

Claim: "On the question on the DREAM Act, no -- no to granting lower tuition to illegals."
Evidence Summary: He argued for securing the border in a "smart and humane way" "There is no way in hell that caging babies is a smart or a right or good way to do it," he said. "We say no to scapegoating immigrants, and yes to 'Dreamers," yes to keeping families together," he added. "The cruel policies of this administration are doing real and lasting harm," he continued. "I see no reason why the bills that are ready to go ... should be held hostage to this debate over border security"

Claim: "Says getting ex-cons to successfully return to society is important so we are not always faced constantly with recidivism, which is a big problem in the penitentiary today in the 70 to 80 percent range."
Evidence Summary: The FIRST STEP Act would allocate $375 million in federal funding for job training and education programs in prisons. In the U.S., more than 600,000 people are released from prison every year. Nearly 77 percent of those released are rearrested within five years, according to a National Institute of Justice report. States should develop and implement sound re-entry policies that reduce recidivism rates, promote public safety, and offer offenders opportunities that truly reflect a second chance, says Impact Justice's Busansky.

Claim: "The Republican-authored state budget includes a provision forcing people earning as little as $12,000 to buy private health insurance that could cost them as much as $4,000 per year."
Evidence Summary: Newsom wants to reinstate the financial penalty for people who do not have insurance. This would make California the fourth state to adopt an individual mandate with a penalty. The proposal, he said, would cost about $100 million a year and expand upon the city's already existing public-option plan. "We recognized that health care is not just in theory a right. It’s in practice a right," de Blasio said on MSNBC's Morning Joe. "Republicans in Washington are trying to tear down health care. We are doing just the opposite."

Claim: "As Bernie Sanders said, Hillary Clinton voted for virtually every trade agreement that has cost the workers of this country millions, millions of jobs."
Evidence Summary: Tradewatch.org has documented the almost one million specific U.S. jobs certified by the government, by the Department of Labor as lost to NAFTA. Lori Wallach: For decades, America's trade policy, supported by establishment Democrats as well as establishment Republicans, helped the people at the top -- people like Jeff Flake's donors -- and hurt working Americans. "I voted numerous times when I was a senator to spend money to build a barrier to try to prevent illegal immigrants from coming in," Hillary Clinton told a crowd in November 2015.

Claim: "In the past three years, weve added enough new oil and gas pipeline to circle the Earth and then some."
Evidence Summary: By 2030, the U.S. is on track to produce 60 percent of the world's new oil and gas supply. By 2050, the country’s newly tapped reserves are projected to spew 120 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. That would make it nearly impossible to keep global warming within the 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit above pre-industrial averages. United Nations scientists forecast climate change to be catastrophic, with upward of $54 trillion in damages. There's an estimated 90 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in federal offshore territories in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

Claim: "Obama is the Senate's ""most liberal."""
Evidence Summary: The Affordable Care Act has so far withstood McConnell and Trump’s efforts to dismantle the legislation. Reid was prescient in urging the Obama administration and congressional Republicans to go public about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. A certain nostalgia for the Senate leader has set in among Democrats, even those who had their disagreements with him. While the party he once presided over is divided on most everything, they are united in their reverence to Obama. Should he throw his support behind a candidate down the road, he could be the only prayer the party has of a semblance of unity.

Claim: "Three out of the 18 benchmarks of the (GAO) have been fulfilled. Even among Republican math, that is a failing grade."
Evidence Summary: Trump's underperformance vs. expectations when he took office is biggest in terms of handling the federal deficit and the economy. While 87 percent of Republicans expected him to do an excellent or good job on the deficit, 67 percent now think he’s done so, a 20-point gap. On the economy, he trails expectations by 12 points among Democrats, 18 points among independents and 8 points in his own party. Tom Steyer, after flirting with a presidential bid, has decided he will not seek the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination.

Claim: The fiscal cliff deal ultimately raised taxes.
Evidence Summary: The House joined the Senate in passing a bill that raises taxes for people earning more than $400,000. The bill also extends long-term jobless benefits for a year, and put any significant spending cuts on hold until later in 2013. The deficit jumped by 17 percent in 2018, after the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul passed in 2017. The Democrats are showing bared teeth and American taxpayers have a history of responding poorly to tax hikes dating back to 1773. Ocasio-Cortez’s income tax hike is only one of several tax hikes being threatened.

Claim: "When President Barack Obama said ISIS, or ISIL, was contained, he was responding very specifically to the geographic expansion of ISIL in Iraq and Syria."
Evidence Summary: President Trump has backpedaled a bit on his declaration of victory over ISIS. He tweeted Monday that “we will be leaving at a proper pace while at the same time continuing to fight ISIS and doing all else that is prudent and necessary!” But he also claimed that these remarks are “no different from my original statements’ and that a New York Times’ story stating otherwise is “very inaccurate.” It is untrue that Obama claimed radical Islamic terrorism does not stem from ideology. The word ideology appears nowhere in that earlier speech.

Claim: "U.S. Olympic medal winners will owe up to $9,000 to the IRS."
Evidence Summary: In 1980, a fifth-grader whose allowance was less than $44 a week would have owed no tax at all on the 10-spot grammy paid for doing chores. In between there were more than a dozen income thresholds — call them “brackets” — above which each additional dollar earned was taxed at a slightly higher rate. “Your tax rate, let's say from zero to $75,000, may be 10 percent or 15 percent,” she said in an interview with CBS News’ “60 Minutes”

Claim: "Eleven years ago, the city of Detroit lifted the residency requirement for police officers and today, 53 percent of officers live outside of the city. If we want the tax base of Milwaukee to resemble the tax base of Detroit, this is the way to go."
Evidence Summary: Candidates were asked whether they backed the pending federal consent decree to reform the Chicago Police Department. Just 17 percent of homicides resulted in an arrest last year. Candidates for mayor are talking about the need to improve police training and practices. We count six previous times since 1960 that a City Hall task force or blue-ribbon panel promised Chicago the high-performing, trustworthy Police Department it deserves. The next mayor will have as much influence on the way police do their job as whatever the judge might impose.

Claim: There was a 57-percent decrease in fireworks-related injuries in 2000 [after Connecticut legalized sparklers] compared to the 14 years prior.
Evidence Summary: A nine-year-old boy in Georgia and a girl in California were both wounded by possible "celebratory" gunfire. Police departments across the country often warn citizens of the dangers of firing guns into the air each year ahead of New Year's Eve celebrations. The advent of such laws across the U.S. in the past 15 years has been accompanied by some good news. Deaths involving drunken driving are only about half of what they were in the early 1980s, though they have ticked back up in recent years.

Claim: "Look, the earmarks have come down significantly, 75 percent."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney: "There’s a lot going on and I’m honored to be part of it" Rep. Khanna: "We now have conclusive proof that austerity politics don’t work” Rep. Rose: "I want to repeat again: the six bills that we want to pass until September 30th and then leave the one bill where there are questions for 30 days to discuss options” Sen. Hammill: "It's obvious that election season's starting again. But what we can't do is campaign in the halls of Congress"

Claim: Says Carlos Beruff supported (Charlie) Crist even after he switched parties.
Evidence Summary: Florida voters approved a constitutional amendment to restore voting rights to former felons. The issue has been a controversial political issue in Florida for many years. Nearly half of the individuals having their voting rights restored are black or Latino, at 29.6 percent and 20 percent, respectively, according to a Florida Rights Restoration Coalition board member. The amendment received bipartisan support from the American Civil Liberties Union and Freedom Partners, a Koch Brothers-backed conservative nonprofit organization. The new governor-elect has said he intends for the will of the voters to be implemented but will look to the Legislature.

Claim: "Under his tax plan, the greatest gains, percentage-wise, will be at the lower end of our plan."
Evidence Summary: "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," he said. Ocasio-Cortez floated the idea of tax rates as high as 70 percent on the ultra-rich. “The American people are very conservative in the sense of not wanting radical change quickly. It just doesn’t work,” he said of a possible tax hike. "We’re not talking about make America great again; we’'re great now," he added.

Claim: "U.S. Senate candidate Michelle Nunn earned as much as $300,000 running a nonprofit that had laid off 90 workers."
Evidence Summary: Gillibrand raised more than $27 million during the last election cycle. Watchdog groups have raised questions about the propriety of campaign funds financially supporting a family member. Waters raised contributions in excess of federal limits through an unusual process. The Citizens for Waters report to the Federal Election Commission from Dec. 11 lists $183,022 in debt to daughter Karen Waters. The report also lists $13,000 debt listed to a charter school group, which was the subject of an earlier FEC complaint against the Waters campaign.

Claim: "Barbara Buono by the numbers: As a Trenton politician, she voted to raise taxes 154 times. Under her, property taxes up 70 percent. Backed a 16 percent sales tax increase. Utilities, nursing homes, cell phones, parking lots, lottery wins, gyms She taxed them all. Architect of Corzines budget, she drove New Jersey $2 billion into debt. Barbara Buono by the numbers: taking New Jersey backwards."
Evidence Summary: De Blasio says NYC Care, starting in the Bronx and phased in across the city's five boroughs, will provide primary and specialty care to 600,000 uninsured New Yorkers. State Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis, a Republican representing parts of Brooklyn and Staten Island, immediately criticized the proposal as an example of de Blasio using city coffers "like his personal ATM" Phil Murphy headed into his second year in office redeclaring his campaign pledge to make New Jersey fairer for the middle class and taking aim at a business incentive program.

Claim: "In recent years, menhaden numbers along our coast have plummeted by 90 percent."
Evidence Summary: Blair's visit follows the publication of a now-viral video showing Menindee resident Dick Arnold and grazier Rob McBride holding dead 100-year-old Murray cod. Arnold and McBride are calling the fish kills “a manmade disaster” Clifton said on Wednesday the situation was nothing short of “destruction of an environmental system’ Phillips, the owner of Sapelo Sea Farms in Georgia, makes his living growing clams, so water quality is crucial to him.

Claim: "During his 18-year Senate career, (Russ Feingold) supported judges who voted to deny your individual Second Amendment right. (He) promises to protect those rights, but thats not what his record shows."
Evidence Summary: The perception that Sen. Kamala Harris, 54, acted as a “progressive prosecutor” during her tenure as the district attorney of San Francisco and then California’s attorney general contradict her actions, a professor argues. A New York Times op-ed piece says Harris fought tooth and nail to uphold wrongful convictions that had been secured through evidence tampering, false testimony and the suppression of crucial information by prosecutors. The professor also lists multiple instances where the Democratic senator failed to embrace criminal justice reforms – either opposing them or declining to state an opinion.

Claim: "Says Gov. Rick Perrys administration has proposed ending immunizations for 113,000 kids."
Evidence Summary: The World Health Organization has ranked vaccine hesitancy as one of the top 10 health threats in the world for 2019. The percentage of children who are unvaccinated has quadrupled since 2001, even though the overall utilization of most vaccines remains high. More than 100,000 American infants and toddlers have received no vaccines whatsoever, and millions more have received only some crucial shots. It’s no mystery how we got here. On the internet, anti-vaccine propaganda has outpace d pro- Vaccine public health information.

Claim: "Walking in the door (Sonia Sotomayor) would bring more experience on the bench, and more varied experience on the bench, than anyone currently serving on the United States Supreme Court had when they were appointed."
Evidence Summary: Lady Hale is the court’s first female president since its creation 10 years ago. Women working in law and other professions are increasingly aware and resentful of earning less than men, she said. She also described the compulsory retirement age of 70 for judges as a “waste of talent’ In the high court, court of appeal and supreme court, a quarter of judges are women. Among district judges, around a third are female. Hale has supported the pursuit of gender equality as consistently as she can within the constitutional restraints of her position.

Claim: "[R]emember, the president proposed eliminating charitable deductions for higher-income taxpayers."
Evidence Summary: The top tax on the wealthy should rise to as high as 70 percent, Ocasio-Cortez said. That approach stands in stark contrast to Mr. Trump's 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Raising the so-called marginal tax rate on the rich would mark a return to the more progressive tax structure of the 1950s and 1960s. Under Presidents Harry S. Truman, Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy, for instance, the rate on those in the top bracket topped 90 percent.

Claim: "Days after the (Osama bin Laden) raid, Hollywood was invited into the White House so that they could receive a briefing that revealed intelligence sources and methods."
Evidence Summary: Buzzfeed News reports that President Trump directed his longtime attorney Michael Cohen to lie to Congress about negotiations to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo seemed to attribute the attack to the Chinese actors last month on Fox News. Members of the Senate Intelligence Committee requested a briefing from U.S. intelligence agencies about the Marriott intrusion, according to a Hill source. "The lines between the physical world and cyberspace are blurring as we see signals intelligence gathering and human intelligence gathering merging," said Carbon Black.

Claim: "Says Mitt Romney had millions in the Cayman Islands, a tax haven."
Evidence Summary: Romney spent the bulk of his business career at a firm called Bain Capital. Bain Capital all but invented what is now a familiar business strategy: Take over an existing company for a short period of time, cut costs by firing employees, run up the debt, extract the wealth, and move on. In 2010, for example, Mitt Romney made about $22 million dollars in investment income. He paid an effective federal tax rate of 14 percent. For normal upper-middle-class wage earners, the federal tax rates is nearly 40 percent.

Claim: "A large number of the uninsured earn $75,000 or more a year."
Evidence Summary: 7 percent of Americans over the age of 18 lacked health coverage during the last three months of 2018, a sharp uptick that suggests Republican efforts to peel back the Affordable Care Act could be taking a toll on the insurance markets. If correct, the numbers would also signal a serious reversal of the coverage gains made under the Obama administration. But in the first quarter of 2008, it stood at 14.6 percent, not far from today’s mark. Americans spend $3.5 trillion on health care every year, which is 17.9 percent of the economy.

Claim: "If you are black or brown, you are nine times more likely to be stopped and frisked in New York City."
Evidence Summary: A majority of the 10 Chicago police beats with the most traffic stops over the three-year period were in heavily African-American neighborhoods. African-Americans accounted for 49 percent of the traffic stops in 2015, the study shows. The high number of traffic stops came at the same time that officers sharply dropped how often they stopped pedestrians. With the new law and ACLU agreement, officers went from documenting their stops on so-called contact cards to a 1½-page document that includes dozens of boxes to check and space to give a detailed justification.

Claim: 1.3-million people in America make their living off eBay.
Evidence Summary: Hedge funds Elliott Management and Starboard Value have taken stakes in eBay Inc (EBAY.O) Elliott Management has urged changes at the e-commerce platform including the sale of some of its businesses, which could release billions of dollars in capital. In 2015, eBay spun off payment platform PayPal Holdings Inc., PYPL -1.29% a successful acquisition that activist investor Carl Icahn deemed more valuable as a stand-alone business. EBay’s stock has risen just 18% since the split and is down 17% over the past year.

Claim: "Under Mary Burkes leadership, Commerce Department business-incentive programs had major shortcomings and 40 percent of jobs...didnt materialize."
Evidence Summary: Lamont's great-grandfather was a business partner of J.P. Morgan. He spent $38 million of his own money on his campaigns, including $12 million to win the governor’s race in November. He inherits a state striving to reverse its financial fortunes. Lamont: "I happen to believe that people and organizations' weaknesses flow from their strengths. It's actually a great way to think about people, right?’ LZ: "The financial services sector has one of the largest gender pay gaps. Women are repeatedly under-represented"

Claim: "Under a proposal by Rep. Paul Ryan, people on Medicare will only have $15,000 from the federal government to spend on their health care."
Evidence Summary: Medicare for All envisions the federal government spending a lot more money on health care than it does today. The government has to find that money by raising revenue through taxes or government-imposed premiums, cutting other spending, accepting higher deficits or some combination of the three. The taxes and premiums would be in lieu of what private individuals and employers pay for insurance today, so that, advocates say, a majority would come out ahead. But exactly how many would depend on the budget arithmetic in the rest of the program.

Claim: "A fairly limited number of people, 25 million to 30 million, will be allowed to access a national health insurance exchange."
Evidence Summary: Survey finds broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care, including letting some people buy into Medicare or Medicaid. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. The proposal would require all U.S. residents be covered with no copays and deductibles for medical services. The insurance industry would be regulated to play a minor role in the system. About 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014.

Claim: "Says Scott Walkers defunding of Planned Parenthood left women across the state stranded with nowhere else to turn for cancer screenings, breast exams and birth control."
Evidence Summary: California and the other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. “The law couldn’t be more clear — employers have no business interfering in women’s healthcare decisions,” California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement Sunday. At issue is a requirement under President Barack Obama”s health care law that birth control services be covered at no additional cost. The Trump administration expanded those exemptions and added “moral convictions” as a basis to opt out.

Claim: "The people that went to school with (Barack Obama), they never saw him, they dont know who he is."
Evidence Summary: As a candidate, Obama demonstrated both the ability to speak about race, injustice and inequality and the skill to evade it. As president, Obama often chose race-neutral language while pressing for health care, criminal justice and immigration reform. "We have a president intentionally, purposefully trying to divide us up by the color of skin, by our gender, by the country we came from," says Sen. Cory Booker. "This is not a time for us to rest in our country," adds Sen. Bernie Sanders.

Claim: "John McCain will keep the estate tax at 0 percent, the same as it is now."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) proposed a 70 percent marginal tax rate on annual earnings above $10 million to fund a Green New Deal and fight climate change. Under her plan, the majority of Americans, who don’t earn that much, would pay a much lower share of their income, and the average tax rate for working Americans could go down. Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., who could launch another White House bid in 2020, offered a plan to expand the estate tax on the wealthy.

Claim: "In 2010, Mr. [Anthony] Gemma described himself as a pro-life candidate. Now, he claims to be pro-choice."
Evidence Summary: With Democrats now in control of the U.S. House of Representatives, it might appear that the fight over abortion rights has become a standoff. Supporters of abortion access say bans infringe on women’s rights and health, and lead to greater rates of injury and death among pregnant women. “Every child is human even in utero and they deserve the right to life,” Sheila, a 56-year-old Maryland resident, said in an interview. But any policy shifts would also have to be undertaken on a case-by-case basis, Matthews said.

Claim: "In barely four years in office, five jihadists have reached their targets in the United States under Barack Obama, compared to zero in over seven years after 9/11 under George W. Bush."
Evidence Summary: Pompeo: Obama claimed radical Islamic terrorism does not stem from ideology. It is untrue that Obama claimed the 9/11 terrorists did not represent the full face of Islam. There were more than 8,500 terrorist attacks worldwide in 2017, according to a State Department report. The report also found that terror threats had grown more complex as ISIS lost territory and sought to inspire simpler but still deadly attacks on Western targets.“The age of self-inflicted American shame is over, and so are the policies that produced so much needless suffering,” Pompeo proclaimed.

Claim: Says Rick Scott has teamed up with a felon convicted of running a Ponzi scheme to smear Charlie Crist.
Evidence Summary: Rick Scott, now a U.S. senator, never took action. DeSantis replaced Scott on Tuesday and made the pardons a priority. "I don't know that there's any way you can look at this case and think that those ideals of justice were satisfied. Indeed, they were perverted time and time again, and I think the way this was carried out was a miscarriage of justice," he said. ... A Republican congressman called his colleagues ‘stupid’ for blocking marijuana research.

Claim: Says that Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam has made it clear by his repeated actions that he will pursue a policy that promotes the interest of Islamist (sic) and their radical ideology as long as he is governor.
Evidence Summary: Cyntoia Brown was sentenced to life in prison for killing a man when she was 16. Gov. Bill Haslam said Monday that he would show mercy to the now 30-year-old Brown by releasing her Aug. 7. Brown said in a statement that she will do everything to justify Haslam's faith in her. Haslam realized soon after he was elected that Tennessee’s workforce was significantly lacking. The idea of Republican free college was the brainchild of Haslam, a billionaire businessman.

Claim: "A part-time Congress with half the pay would still make $38,000 a year more than the average American family."
Evidence Summary: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: Congress should raise the minimum wage to $2,500/hour. She says a modest rise in the wage could result in substantial gains in the life expectancies of affected workers. House Democrats would be wise to maintain their focus on a minimum wage increase, she says, in the face of distractions and political obstacles they’ll surely encounter during the 116th Congress. The new committee is a victory for a cross-partisan coalition of outside advocacy groups and academics.

Claim: "Minnesota, Michigan, Iowa already have 70 mph speed limits on rural interstates, and we see that theyve been able to do it safely."
Evidence Summary: Germany is one of the few countries in the world that doesn't impose speed limits on its beloved Autobahn highways. The idea — still very much just a notion — would limit speeds on the country's highways to 80 mph. Proponents say this would reduce air pollution, help fight climate change and reduce the number of car accidents. The country's transport minister, Andreas Scheuer, has said the idea "goes against all common sense" But prominent Green Party lawmaker Cem Ozdemir defended the proposal Tuesday, calling it an "act of reason"

Claim: "Switzerland and the Netherlands . . . cover all their citizens using private insurers, and they do so for much less cost."
Evidence Summary: Switzerland's welcoming approach to business is in stark contrast to the UK's since the referendum. About 25% of the population are foreign and all new immigrants are invited to a lounge party with the town’s mayor with free food and wine. In 2018, pollsters found 13.7% of Americans lacked health insurance, the highest levels since 2014. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Says Donald Trump himself contributed $100,000 to the Clinton Foundation."
Evidence Summary: Giuliani says Michael Cohen is "completely untrustworthy" BuzzFeed News editor-in-chief says the site stands by its reporting. A campaign finance lawyer says Cohen's payment to the tech firm should have been accounted for and disclosed in campaign reports. Trump had been obliged to state that he “never worked for Russia” following two reports that he may have been used as an asset by Moscow.. “There is not a single bit of evidence the president of the United States committed the only crime you can commit here, conspiring with the Russians,” Giuliani said.

Claim: "Global warming leads to much quicker spread of the Zika virus because the increased temperature, makes mosquitoes mature faster, . . . bite more due to having a higher metabolism, and makes the Zika virus inside of them incubate faster."
Evidence Summary: The mosquito-borne virus that causes Rift Valley fever may severely injure human fetuses if contracted by mothers during pregnancy. In a study published last month in the journal Science Advances, researchers used infected rats and human fetal tissue to discover how the virus targets the placenta. Results showed that the virus may be even more damaging to fetuses than the Zika virus, which set off a global crisis in 2015 and left thousands of babies in Central America and South America with severe birth defects. The fight against disease is expected to narrow but also to intensify.

Claim: "Last year, ExxonMobil made $19 billion in profit. Guess what. They paid zero in taxes. They got a $156 million refund from the IRS."
Evidence Summary: Ocasio-Cortez: "Imagine if you did chores for abuela & she gave you $10. When you got home, you got to keep it, because it’s only $10" "We need to change that in this country," she said. "We have a multi-tiered tax code that is based on the principles of the free market" "It's based on laws that the Congress passed, laws that companies lobbied for in order to increase their economic advantage," she added.

Claim: Says Donald Trump says climate change is a hoax invented by the Chinese.
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump downplayed the report's findings, complaining that the United States is already very "clean" The president has a long history of denying climate change and it seems that access to the best scientific minds in the country hasn’t managed to change that. Before becoming president he once claimed global warming was “created by and for the Chinese” to make “U.S. manufacturing non-competitive” He later said that was a “joke.”

Claim: "Democratic Party candidates for the state Assembly actually received 200,000 more votes statewide than their Republican counterparts in the 2012 election"
Evidence Summary: The work is part of a risk-limiting audit meant to determine the accuracy of the election. The recorder’s race had the tightest margin of the selected races, so will require examining the most ballots. In all, VSTOP officials have said, 4,671 of the 65,449 ballots cast for recorder will be hand tallied. The other races and the ballot measure will be tallied along the way, though officials said those won’t require as many ballots.

Claim: "For decades, the states gas tax has been among the highest in the nation."
Evidence Summary: Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel has proposed an increase of 30 cents per gallon to one of the nation’s highest gas taxes. State Reps. Allen Skillicorn and Jeanne Ives hosted a rally Jan. 7 to oppose increasing the state motor fuel tax. "Now is the time to work towards a new set of tax rules that work for the many, not the few," they said. "We do the best on this issue when the economy is thriving, and there are policies in place that can channel investment into clean energy technologies"

Claim: Congress only funded half the wall between Mexico and the United States.
Evidence Summary: The House passed six appropriations bills to fund most of the government and a continuing resolution to fund the Department of Homeland Security until Feb. 8. Because the proposals do not include any additional funding for a border barrier, they were dead on arrival in the Republican-controlled Senate. Several federal agencies ran out of funding authority Dec. 21 as Congress and Trump failed to agree to spending bills to keep them operating. They have remained shuttered since then amid a battle between the president and congressional Democrats over whether to provide money — and how much — for a wall.

Claim: "Turkeys today weigh 29.8 pounds. In the 30s, they weighed 13.2 pounds."
Evidence Summary: The modern chicken has been bred into an entirely new animal that looks very little like its wild counterpart. Through breeding techniques and feed manipulation, farmed chickens quadrupled in size between the mid-1950s and mid-2000s. Chickens are fed antibiotics prophylactically to the tune of half a million pounds a year in America. Shrinkflation was an established trend in Britain well before the Brexit vote, as firms used stealth tactics to eke out greater profits at the expense of consumers.

Claim: "America has lost over 50,000 manufacturing factories on other trade deals."
Evidence Summary: Manufacturing added 32,000 jobs in December, the bulk of which was in durable goods production. But bellwether American businesses from Apple to General Motors have blamed the Trump administration’s policies on trade for falling sales and lost jobs. Economists warned that the manufacturing sector's gains could be vulnerable if if the current trade negotiations with China fall apart, and tariffs on steel and aluminum are raised or trade sanctions are expanded to include a much broader array of Chinese goods. But for decades, America's trade policy, supported by establishment Democrats as well as establishment Republicans, helped the people at the top.

Claim: "McCain ""voted against a bill to ban waterboarding, and then applauded President Bush for vetoing that ban."""
Evidence Summary: McCain sent back nominations for people who were “totally unqualified’ He demanded accountability on behalf of his colleagues. He stopped holding confirmation hearings on President Trump’s nominees until the Pentagon briefed the Senate on Iraq and Afghanistan. The #WheresMitch hashtag also captured the imagination of others online. The Coast Guard, in particular, fell victim to the political gridlock and show votes. The bill passed 240-179, with 10 Republicans joining all Democrats in the chamber supporting it.

Claim: "The so-called doc fix in the fiscal cliff deal will cut payments for treating illnesses disproportionately impacting minorities, including end stage renal disease and diabetes."
Evidence Summary: Clinics are torn between informing patients about potential risks and unnecessarily scaring them. "We are walking a fine line," says Tara McCollum Plese, chief external affairs officer at the Arizona Alliance for Community Health Centers. If the proposed rule change goes into effect, it could force patients to choose between health care and their chance at a green card, she says. Already, some immigrant patients are skipping medical appointments out of fear stoked by the proposedrule, providers and advocates say.

Claim: "Of $60 billion Congress approved in response to Hurricane Sandy, only 10 percent was for disaster relief."
Evidence Summary: Pew Charitable Trusts study shows how poorly disaster spending is tracked. Eight of Fema’s most expensive years have occurred in the past decade. A FEMA spokesperson referred CBS News to an agency report published last summer in which FEMA conceded it was understaffed and unprepared to respond to the devastation caused by María. In the report, the agency also signaled it underestimated the amount of resources, including food supplies, that the island needed in the storm's aftermath. A congressional official said the White House has directed the Army Corps of Engineers to look for billions of dollars earmarked last year for disaster response.

Claim: "The mega-rich pay about 15 percent in taxes, while the middle class fall into the 15 percent and 25 percent income tax brackets, and then are hit with heavy payroll taxes to boot."
Evidence Summary: The top tax on the wealthy should rise to as high as 70 percent, Ocasio-Cortez told "60 Minutes" That approach stands in stark contrast to Mr. Trump's 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Raising the so-called marginal tax rate on the rich would mark a return to the more progressive tax structure of the 1950s and 1960s, Oxfam's O'Brien said. Not surprisingly, conservatives are bashing the congresswoman's ideas. Americans for Tax Reform founder Grover Norquist said her "soaking the rich" plan is "the opening shot in a renewed war against middle class taxpayers"

Claim: "Rob Teilhet, Just another career politician."
Evidence Summary: "I just don't see him putting himself in a position where he would be considered to break the law by a government like Russia's," he said. "I have the biggest anti-corruption proposals since Watergate. How about we block the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington, you think?" "It’s going to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical that you have not seen before if you think about how this country is changing," he added.

Claim: "Children born today will carry a $30,000 share of the national debt."
Evidence Summary: Julian Zelizer: Politicians must find ways to bolster the financial security of Americans. He says voters don't need to hear stories of how candidates worked their way up from humble origins. Zelizer says new Congress and candidates of the future should tell voters that it’s O.K. to be mad about being in debt, that this is a savage society we now live in. The new Congress must offer real solutions for the challenges in the lives of these voters, he says.

Claim: "Among Syrian refugees, there arent that many women, there arent that many children."
Evidence Summary: "The first step is to create a stabilization force featuring fighters from all parts of Syrian society," Cappelaere said. Women and children account for around 80 percent of the population of 45,000, he said. "They are being kept from their families, and they need to come home," Yousafzai said of Syrian refugees. "There are no excuses for this in the 21st century. This tragic manmade loss of life must end now," he said of the deaths of children.

Claim: "The Texas Capitol faces South toward Goliad, in memory of the most horrific battle of the Texas Revolution."
Evidence Summary: State Rep. Eric Johnson on Sunday tweeted a photo of the blank wall where the plaque was once displayed. The plaque was made by the Children of the Confederacy and was first hung in the Capitol in 1959. Greg Abbott and other state leaders agreed to remove the plaque Friday after years of resistance by top Republicans. Abbott said in October that the Capitol should not have "substantially inaccurate historical statements" on permanent display. Dallas took down a statue of Lee, and New Orleans did the same the year before.

Claim: Says Mike Coffman said two different things: stop the deportationsin a Spanish-language debate and youre going to be deportedin an English-language TV interview.
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., blasted President Trump following his primetime address from the Oval Office on Tuesday night. She accused Trump of “holding the paychecks of everyday Americans hostage” during the partial government shutdown in order to fulfill what she called a “campaign fantasy.” Trump’s speech quickly became the subject of controversy for its series of misleading statements and falsehoods, the first of which occurred in his opening line.

Claim: "Seniors and the disabled will have to stand in front of Obamas death panel so his bureaucrats can decide, based on a subjective judgment of their level of productivity in society, whether they are worthy of health care."
Evidence Summary: A new survey finds broad support for incremental approaches to nationalizing health care. Even a majority of Republicans surveyed support opening up the government-run health care programs to some who wouldn’t otherwise qualify. The popularity of Medicare for all soars when people hear it would guarantee health insurance as a right. But it becomes a political loser if people think it would lead to treatment delays. The 2020 Health Insurance Tax would raise premiums or reduce benefits for seniors, individuals with disabilities and low-income beneficiaries on Medicare Advantage.

Claim: "Today, Florida is in 50th place in spending on education."
Evidence Summary: "We need the government to start focusing on our education," teacher says. Center for Tax and Budget Accountability offers presentation to explain new funding law. "We need $7 billion to completely fund the schools, but unfortunately we can’t get it all at once,” Kifowit says. “The idea tonight is to educate the public more about what the single largest portion of their property taxes goes for,’” she says. "The state is paying them in a timely matter ... not like when we had the general impasse and schools had to wait," Martire says.

Claim: "Since Sept. 11, 2001, 270,000 Americans were killed by gunfire at home."
Evidence Summary: Hannity: "This is not a manufactured crisis. These are real statistics, real people, real lives and many deaths" "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public," he says. "We say enough is enough by finally bringing common-sense bipartisan background check legislation to the floor of the House," he adds. "Today is a new day," says Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, D-Ariz., who was wounded in the 2011 Tucson shooting.

Claim: "Among Milwaukee Public Schools students, 86 percent are behind in reading and 80 percent are behind in math."
Evidence Summary: Teachers in Los Angeles public schools went on strike last week, holding 500,000 kids and their parents hostage. The Los Angeles Unified School District boasts of graduating about 80 percent of students. But only 60 percent of those who graduated actually completed the necessary coursework, reflecting an unfortunate practice of passing students who don’t actually make the grade. One silver lining to the labor dispute is that the teachers’ union and the district do not disagree on the underlying problems, only on where the money to address them is supposed to come from.

Claim: "Today, it is more difficult to enlist in the U.S. military than it is to enroll in college."
Evidence Summary: The Army has missed all recruiting targets since the contract began, the Guardian reports. The length of the process may have contributed to a pattern of people voluntarily dropping out. "People are fundamental to the Army," says Defense Secretary Gavin Williamson. Barbara Ellen and her father were drafted, and both answered the call, despite misgivings.. The Army has been known to target very young hotheads, who may not fully comprehend what they’re signing up for, Barbara Ellen says. It shows that time spent in the Army equips people with skills for life.

Claim: "Democrat Stephen Webber voted to allow sex offenders to be within 500 feet of childcare centers and playgrounds, and even voted to allow sex offenders to be coaches."
Evidence Summary: Hacker's trail of serial abuse began at a time before today’s interstate criminal background checks. He was hired as a CPS teacher three months after his Indiana conviction for sexually molesting a 14-year-old boy. Hacker himself described not just his compulsion and rituals, but also the second chances he was given. After a CPS student accused Hacker of inappropriate conduct, a school administrator said “he’ll give me the benefit of the doubt but he would watch me pretty carefully,” Hacker said.

Claim: "According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the IRS would need to hire over 16,000 people ... to audit the American people and impose the new taxes and mandates of the health care bill."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. Taxpayers will be confronting — many for the first time — a welter of changes made by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. People without health insurance may be surprised to learn they are still on the hook when it comes to Obamacare’s so-called individual mandate. Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act. They complained about the law nonstop that entire time, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans.

Claim: "Tim Kaine reduced higher education funding by 25 percent when he was governor, driving up tuition..."
Evidence Summary: The Director of Financial Aid at California State University, Long Beach felt there may be other reasons for colleges raising their rates. DeVos said the student-loan programs not only bury students, but also taxpayers, because it is “stealing from future generations” Colleen Campbell, associate director for postsecondary education with the Center for American Progress said, DeVos did not mention any possible ways of reducing loan debt. “I believe investing in our educational system with more funding is of national interest. Either through diverting funds from other areas of our national budget or increasing our budget (taxes),” she said.

Claim: "Today, you have six financial institutions, the largest six, that have assets that are the equivalent of 60 percent of the GDP of the United States of America."
Evidence Summary: Goldman Sachs is about half way to a goal management set in 2017 to generate $5 billion more in annual revenue by next year. The steady stream of income has grown more attractive to banks that have been shifting away from volatile areas such as trading and investment banking. Citigroup Inc (C.N), JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM.N) and Deutsche Bank AG (DBKGn.DE) currently dominate the market, handling corporations’ payments and receivables across different regions.

Claim: "Mitt Romney, Rick Perry, and Newt Gingrich all say they would cut foreign aid to Israel and every other country to zero."
Evidence Summary: Mitt Romney wrote an op-ed criticizing the White House's foreign policy agenda. He said he will speak out against "significant statements or actions that are divisive, racist, sexist, anti-immigrant, dishonest or destructive to democratic institutions" His niece and chairwoman of the Republican National Committee Ronna McDaniel denounced the essay as "disappointing and counterproductive" Trump's 2020 campaign manager came to his defense almost immediately, saying Romney "lacked the ability to save this nation"

Claim: "Says bus riders subsidize the expensive, romanticized Leander-to-Austin train."
Evidence Summary: Both community activist Amara Enyia and Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown suggested not free fares, but discounted fares for low-income people. But Preckwinkle said that while the idea of free or discounted fares may be attractive, it would prove too burdensome for the CTA. Rod Blagojevich had previously tried offering free rides to seniors, but the measure proved a heavy burden for transit agencies and was rescinded. Bus ridership also has declined nationally, according to the American Public Transportation Association.

Claim: "In Wisconsin, a second arrest for carrying pot is a felony, but a second or subsequent arrest for carrying a gun illegally is a misdemeanor."
Evidence Summary: Jalen J. Jones, 25, of Wilmette, was charged with possession of cannabis and speeding. He was released on a $1,500 bond and has a scheduled court date of March 5. Wisconsin remains the only state in the nation that treats a first offense as a civil violation akin to a speeding ticket rather than a crime. In 2015 alone, nearly 200 people were killed and an additional 2,900 were injured in alcohol-related crashes in the state, according to state Department of Transportation data.

Claim: "Keystone XL allows Canada to pump their oil, send it through our land, down to the Gulf, where it will be sold everywhere else."
Evidence Summary: Alberta announced its strategy nearly a year ago to offer up to C$1 billion in loan guarantees and grants to spur construction of such facilities. Record-large discounts on prices for the province’s heavy oil last year, mainly the result of problems shipping it, have shrunk profits for many oil producers and damaged the Canadian economy. Trudeau's green credentials have also been roiled by his government's efforts to get a major pipeline expansion built. Despite the Trudeau government's support, the Trans Mountain expansion is currently under review.

Claim: "A lawyer demanded several Houston pastors hand over to the city government many of their private papers, including their sermons."
Evidence Summary: “I’ve been a terrible husband and a terrible father,” says a Texas pastor who resigned over allegations he slept with prostitutes. “We are blessed in this city to have the kind of collegial relationships where we all really work together, we pray together and sacrifice together,’’ says another pastor. A North Carolina county is paying $285,000 to the American Civil Liberties Union to settle a five-year-old lawsuit. The ACLU sued the county over its practice of opening meetings with prayer.

Claim: "Just days ago, Irans Supreme Leader (Ali) Khamenei, who will oversee implementation of this agreement, was calling Israel a rabid dog and accusing the United States of war crimes."
Evidence Summary: Danon said when the Security Council labeled Al Qaeda, the Taliban and ISIS as terror groups, their terror threat was reduced. He urged members to show the same zeal against groups that receive Iranian terror funding. The push by the U.S. and Israel for countries in Europe to crack down on Iran has shown some success in recent months. European countries have become increasingly concerned with the Islamic Republic’s missile testing and destabilizing activities in the region. On Sunday, the head of Iran's nuclear programme said technicians had begun “preliminary activities for designing” a new way of producing 20%-enriched uranium.

Claim: Thirty percent of [Sheldon Whitehouse campaign] money is coming from special interests.
Evidence Summary: Liberal groups accounted for 54% of the $150 million in dark-money spending in last year’s election cycle, conservative groups 31% and nonpartisan or bipartisan groups 15%. A liberal group called Majority Forward, which spent $46 million on ads and was active in 10 competitive Senate races last year, was the biggest nonprofit spender during the midterm elections. Issue One CEO Nick Penniman said that the data showed that the problem of political groups that can spend unlimited money without disclosing their donors is a bipartisan problem.

Claim: "Lizbeth Benacquistos supporters would make (abortion) illegal in all cases, including rape, incest, even to save a womans life."
Evidence Summary: A Florida state lawmaker has filed a bill aiming to ban abortion if a fetal heartbeat is detected. The bill has led to public outcry from some progressive groups. House Bill 235, filed by Republican state Rep. Mike Hill, would make it illegal for women to get an abortion after the heartbeat is found. The lawmaker, who represents the city of Pensacola and parts of the state's Northern panhandle, said he filed the bill "because it will save lives. It will save the unborn babies"

Claim: We are about halfway to the presidents goal to cut greenhouse gas emissions and about half of that is because of the substitution of natural gas for coal in the power sector.
Evidence Summary: U.S. energy-related carbon emissions will rise to 5,299 million tonnes in 2018, according to the EIA. Natural gas, which emits about half the carbon of coal, replaced most of the lost coal generation. The spike occurred even though 2018 brought a record number of shutdowns of power plants fired by coal, the fuel richest in carbon output when burned. The Trump administration's rollback of environmental laws and decision to withdraw from the Paris climate accords play a role in the increase.

Claim: "The primary election results show Democrats are strong in Kentucky because the Democratic candidates ""both got more votes than Rand Paul did."""
Evidence Summary: Mitch McConnell's approval ratings, both nationally and in Kentucky, have never been high. Trump won Kentucky in 2016 with nearly 63 percent of the vote, some 400,000 more votes than McConnell in his last Senate election. In 2018 Kentucky voters again embraced Trump in re-electing GOP Rep. Andy Barr, the congressman who was in a tight race until Trump visited, beginning a surge in Barr's favor. North Carolina House race marred by fraud may not be resolved until the fall.

Claim: "Says a photo ID voting law in Georgia didnt dissuade black voters from participating in voting. It hasnt, it doesnt, and apparently, if you do cause and effect in that state, its been helpful."
Evidence Summary: After the Civil War, Florida barred anyone with a criminal conviction from voting. The policy affected every election in Florida from Reconstruction through 2018. Amendment 4 restored voting rights to up to 1.5 million mostly black felons, other than murderers and sexual offenders, who have served their sentences. In December, DeSantis said it would be months before Florida’s Republican-dominated legislature would approve “implementing language” to allow the measure to be passed into law. It was restorative justice far too long in the making.

Claim: "Says since 2000, Austins tax burden rose more than 40 percent while family income rose more than 20 percent."
Evidence Summary: Nevada and Idaho made the biggest gains in population at 2.1 percent each. Over more than a generation, the lower half of income distribution has been shut out from economic growth. For the tippy-top 0.001 percent — the 2,300 richest Americans — incomes have grown by more than 600 percent. Just as the point of taxing carbon is not to raise revenue but to reduce carbon emissions, high tax rates for sky-high incomes do not aim at funding Medicare for All.

Claim: "On (the federal minimum wage of) $7.75, you cant even make half the poverty level."
Evidence Summary: House Democrats introduced the Raise the Wage Act on Jan. 16. The bill would raise the hourly federal minimum wage from $7.25 for most workers to $15 by 2024. A full-time worker making the minimum wage would only earn approximately $15,000 per year, a figure uncomfortably close to the federal poverty level. More than 75 percent of Americans are living paycheck to paycheck, and more than 40 percent don’t have $400 in cash in the bank to cover emergencies.

Claim: "Says that voter identification laws keep poor people from voting, minorities from voting, the elderly from voting, students from voting."
Evidence Summary: McConnell also suggested that making private donors public was an attack on free speech. The Republican also took issue with the bill’s ban on removing people from voter rolls for not voting in a previous election. In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. These purges, conducted against citizens for merely having missed an election or two, are a new form of voter suppression, as partisan politicians have used their power to purge citizens.

Claim: Nearly 65 percent -- almost two-thirds -- of all new permanent residents obtained that status by virtue of their family status.
Evidence Summary: More than 50,000 young immigrants have obtained green cards by qualifying for special immigrant juvenile status since 2010. Applications to the program have surged in recent years, rising more than three-fold between the 2014 and 2017 fiscal years, federal data shows. The program is the best chance for many of the thousands of young immigrants arriving on the border to be allowed to stay in the U.S. A now-22-year-old woman in Northern California, who requested anonymity, fled her Mexican immigrant parents' home in high school after her father repeatedly beat her.

Claim: Says that politicians who approved collective bargaining restrictions for public employees exploited a loophole exempting themselves from Senate Bill 5.
Evidence Summary: In California, public employees can go on strike to enforce their collective bargaining demands. The state’s supreme court has long held that strikes by public employees are lawful, unless the strike creates a “substantial and imminent” threat to public health or safety. Historically, the combination of this inside game and grass-roots pressure gave the unions sway in Washington. Last year, after Mr. Trump proposed freezing federal pay, the unions used their influence in the Senate to help pass the nearly 2 percent pay increase they sought.

Claim: "Its a good sign for Obamacare that in California, the proportion of kids who are signing up is the proportion of kids in the population."
Evidence Summary: California and the other states argue that women would be forced to turn to state-funded programs for birth control and experience unintended pregnancies. “The law couldn’t be more clear — employers have no business interfering in women’s healthcare decisions,” California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement Sunday. The uninsured rates in all three states are below the national average of 10 percent as of 2017, the most recent year for which Census data on the uninsured at the state level are available.

Claim: "Company may close, all because government essentially says if they dont hire a lifeguard to watch their workers, they cant stay open."
Evidence Summary: "It's not like a furloughed position where somewhere down the line they're going to get money," she says. "We never ignore anything which may put an individual at risk" "Working over 16 hours on a day-to-day basis is unhealthy," she adds. "It shouldn't just end with a call to the local police, who say they can't do anything" "For us as a company, we'll survive. But for the individuals — and really that's what this all about"

Claim: "More than 3,000 homicides were committed by illegal aliens over the past six years."
Evidence Summary: The Washington Post offered a series of “fact checks” following President Trump’s primetime address on border security. One of them raised eyebrows, as it complained the president's crime stats were too comprehensive. The president is right about the total number of arrests of immigrants with criminal records that ICE has arrested over the past two years. But that number alone is misleading, because many of those of immigrants have very likely committed immigration-related offenses rather than violent crimes as the president is suggesting.

Claim: "Two weeks after signing a taxpayer protection pledge, (Charlie Crist) breaks it."
Evidence Summary: The president is threatening to shut down the government if he doesn't get his way on immigration. Florida's incoming governor is under fire for saying a voting rights amendment can't go into effect until the state legislature takes action. A former governor says "nothing" should keep convicted former felons who have paid their debt to society from legally registering to vote. The White House is trying to lift some Russia sanctions, but it's not clear if they'll get the go-ahead from the GOP-led Senate.

Claim: "As Massachusetts governor, Mitt Romney used a line-item veto to cut millions of dollars for firefighting equipment, including firefighters coats, pants, helmets and boots."
Evidence Summary: California Gov. Gavin Newsom proposed millions in new spending on wildfire prevention. President Trump threatened to cut all the state's FEMA funds because of the its forest management policies. Romney, just two days from being sworn in as the junior Republican senator from Utah, wrote in the Washington Post that Trump's most glaring failure has been his inability to unite a "nation so divided, resentful and angry" Despite the criticism, Romney got this shoutout from departing Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz): "A thoughtful piece by incoming Senator Romney"

Claim: "On how he measures his promise to create 700,000 private-sector jobs in seven years."
Evidence Summary: Sunday marks the second anniversary of President Trump's inauguration. At the midpoint of his four-year term, Trump has already delivered on some of his campaign promises, such as boosting funding for the military. Other pledges have been all but ignored, like his promise to lead a $1 trillion infrastructure push. With many of Trump's promises, however, the record is somewhere in between — not exactly "mission accomplished," but not "mission forgotten" either. The administration has continued to slash federal regulations at a record rate, foretelling future economic expansion.

Claim: "Over the time that President Obama has been in office, we have lost 2.5 million free enterprise system jobs, and, yet, 500,000 federal government jobs have been added."
Evidence Summary: President Donald Trump's capitalist economic policies are reducing income disparity for working-class Americans. During President Obama's last six quarters in office, economic growth averaged a near-recessionary low of 1.5 percent. As the CEO of a quick-service restaurant chain, I saw the impact firsthand. We often had over 100 applicants for entry-level job openings. The economy moves in cycles, and the U.S. has enjoyed a record 98 consecutive months of job growth since the Great Recession ended.

Claim: "As a state representative, David Cicilline argued against Megans Law and voted against mandatory registration of sex offenders."
Evidence Summary: Until this past July, Massachusetts outlawed unmarried sex. No reasonable person would say that prosecutors across the state acted unethically when they did not attempt to enforce that law. "We went from having two open federal investigations in the police department to an accredited police department," says Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse. "Other states have figured it out and we should too," says Rep. David Cicilline, D-Rhode Island. "He has to be just a gloss over," said Rep. Curt Nisly, R-Massachusetts.

Claim: "U.S. Department of Homeland Security has told banks -- in writing -- it may inspect safe deposit boxes without warrant and seize any gold, silver, guns or other valuables it finds inside those boxes!"
Evidence Summary: A gunman barricaded himself inside a bank in Sebring, Florida, police say. A county SWAT team was sent to the bank after a 911 caller reported that a gunman had fired shots inside. "The suspect eventually surrendered to the HCSO SWAT team," the sheriff's office said on its Facebook page. According to the FBI, about 25 to 35 armored trucks and drivers are robbed each year, compared with about 4,000 banks. The first armored car robbery was in 1927, when the Flathead Gang dynamited a truck 7 miles outside of Pittsburgh.

Claim: "We waterboard, incidentally, hundreds of our own military personnel. They waterboard themselves in training to toughen themselves up."
Evidence Summary: "We hid in the room and then some police officers rescued us," says one Marine. "Our mission is to help the Coast Guard in time of need," says another. "I'm grateful that you don't have that as part of the calculus," he says of the U.S. military. "We're here to help, and that's what we're going to do," he adds. "It's not about us, it's about the people" in need, he says.

Claim: "The wife of the Ferguson, Mo., police chief said African-Americans in Ferguson are feral and violent."
Evidence Summary: Two black men have been charged in connection to the shooting of Jazmine Barnes. Activists and politicians demanded that the shooting be investigated as a hate crime. Some activists and the family, who are black, believed the unprovoked nature of the crime in a part of Harris county known for racial tensions pointed to the possibility of a racially motivated attack. "Our society needs to collectively wake up and stand against the lack of hesitancy to kill or attempt to kill those who protect this country from chaos and disorder," one police chief said.

Claim: "In Milwaukee County, juveniles arrested for car theft get sent immediately home, because under the point system in juvenile court on holding suspects, a stolen car gets zero points."
Evidence Summary: A 17-year-old boy who was allegedly driving a stolen car at the time of a multi-vehicle chain-reaction crash in Niles last fall is facing charges in juvenile court. Niles police on Friday announced that the teen, of Franklin Park, had been charged with possession of a stolen motor vehicle. Days earlier, the teen was issued 10 different citations related to the crash, including driving without a valid license, driving with more than one passenger under age 20 and disregarding a stop sign. The teen has been petitioned to Cook County Juvenile Court.

Claim: "To get out of the (teachers) union, you pay 85 percent of $731. Then youre out of the union, but youve got to pay it every year, also required by statute. Thats called a representation fee."
Evidence Summary: United Teachers Los Angeles said it hoped the district would offer “a meaningful proposal’ The two sides aren't far apart on salary, but the union is still hoping for a 6.5 percent raise — including back pay to July 2016. The district is offering a package of raises totaling 6 percent, but with back pay only going back as far as July 2017, when the teachers' last contract expired. The union is demanding $800 million toward new staff, versus the district’s offer of $130 million.

Claim: "Hillary's main extracurricular activity in law school was helping the Black Panthers, on trial in Connecticut for torturing and killing a federal agent."
Evidence Summary: Sen. Kamala Harris has faced criticism from some on the left about her record as a district attorney in San Francisco and later as California’s attorney general. In a widely shared New York Times op-ed, law professor Lara Bazelon called Harris a “regressive” prosecutor who was often on “the wrong side of history” on the matter of criminal justice reform. A prominent Bay Area activist accused the senator on Twitter of “terrorizing Black communities” by working to strengthen the state's prison system.

Claim: "Over the past few months, we've learned that ""we just can't count on the media to debunk"" lies about health insurance reform."
Evidence Summary: Americans want to see legislation passed by both parties so it can stand the test of time. Demonstrating progress in a few vital areas not only delivers on what they expect, but builds trust needed for bigger efforts. Significant change of the kind Americans are looking for is unlikely to happen until we get to the next presidential term, but they still want action. Andy Slavitt, a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors, is a former health care industry executive who ran the Affordable Care Act.

Claim: "The day President Obama took office, gasoline was $1.79 a gallon."
Evidence Summary: "Do you think it’s just luck that gas prices are so low, and falling?" Trump tweeted. It took critics a few more hours to do what they have often done during the first two years of Trump's tenure — assert that the president was oversimplifying. Trump's claim of positive pocketbook news for Americans appeared to be offered, at least in part, as an antidote to a sour 2018 on Wall Street. The outlook was much better for consumers at the fuel pump, where gas dipped to less than $2 in some locations.

Claim: "The stimulus ""has delivered $43 billion in tax relief to American working families and businesses"""
Evidence Summary: Thanks to this administration’s pro-growth policies, over 4.5 million new jobs have been added to the workforce. The unemployment rate remains at 3.9 percent, near its lowest in 50 years. The number of people on food stamps is near an eight-year low. President Trump negotiated a new trade deal between the United States, Mexico and Canada to protect American workers and intellectual property. He is holding our trading partners accountable for unfair practices and pursuing deals that support domestic industries, including steel and aluminum.

Claim: "In Wisconsin, more than 300,000 people have some kind of addictive gambling problem, whether its pathological or what wed categorize as a problem gambler."
Evidence Summary: "For some people, it’s not accepting that alcohol use disorder is an illness,” Lucey said. While support for the changing approach is growing, Lee said it continues to be a polarizing issue. "There are still detractors and still strong opposition," he said. "Our study suggests that is certainly present, because regional differences are disparate," Lee said. “If the problem is concentrated in a relatively small set of people, then thinking about the interventions that would be most effective for those people is going to take us a lot farther”

Claim: "Says Mitt Romneys top five donors are Wall Street firms, while Barack Obamas top five are technology companies and universities."
Evidence Summary: Not since 2008 have donors in the securities and investment industry given a higher percentage to Democratic candidates and committees than to Republicans. While President Trump has touted his fortune and his accomplishments as a developer, Romney never talked up his enormous wins as a private equity investor. Maybe he thought American voters would not understand his business dealings, or maybe he thinks that amassing a fortune is somehow shameful. Romney refused to go after Obama on the shameful lies about the deaths of Americans in Benghazi, wouldn’t challenge the president on his handling of the auto industry meltdown and allowed Democrats to paint him as anti-female.

Claim: "You dont have to be as smart as a fifth-grader to know what causes the climate is the sun. The sun. I have people tell me, Carbon dioxide warms the Earth. No, it doesnt. The sun warms the Earth."
Evidence Summary: President Trump has cast doubt on the risks posed by global warming. Some conservative commentators have argued that most proposed solutions would do more harm than good. In 2006, a NASA scientist and leading global warming researcher declared that the world had only 10 years to avert a climate catastrophe. For the last six years, the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology was led by Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican with no scientific background. Under him, the committee investigated the debunked idea that global warming had “paused,” subpoenaed organizations whose research affirmed the reality of climate change.

Claim: "Every general City of Milwaukee employee pays toward his or her pension, but approximately 88 percent of our police officers and firefighters do not."
Evidence Summary: We put our pension question to each, knowing how pols on the campaign trail in Illinois hate to discuss the bleak state of pensions because it's a no-happy-talk zone. Illinois’s constitution won’t allow existing pensions to be diminished or impaired, but future pensions must be made affordable. The pension bucket will never be filled so long as the bucket has holes that drain it faster than money can be added. The mayor who has to come up with an extra $270 million in 2020 will have toCome up with nearly $1 billion in extra pension funding by 2023.

Claim: "While Hillary Clinton plans a massive, and I mean massive, tax increase, I have proposed the largest tax reduction of any candidate who has run for president this year, Democrat or Republican."
Evidence Summary: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., defended her call for a 70 percent tax rate on the rich. “We have a moral and economic responsibility in this country starting right now,” she added. Rep. Tlaib's moment of honesty came as she rallied a crowd of supporters Thursday night, recounting a conversation she had with her 13-year-old son about her plans for public service. ‘Momma look, you won’t win, ‘Baby.’ ‘The mother-----r screeched into the microphone, as her fans lost their minds in euphoria.

Claim: The Republican-controlled Wisconsin Assembly approved only one out of 376 amendments offered by Assembly Democrats in 2011.
Evidence Summary: Scott Walker signed the new restrictions into law roughly three weeks before he was to leave office and be replaced by Democrat Tony Evers. The same lame-duck session of the legislature also sought to curb Evers' powers, in a move widely criticized as a power play. It marks the first time since 2006, when Democrat Jim Doyle was governor, that the entire Legislature is controlled by the opposite party of the governor. Last year, Democrats passed voting reforms in the state assembly, only to see them die in the Republican-controlled state senate.

Claim: "Despite the rhetoric from Democrat politicians, more people are employed this year than at any point in the history of Wisconsin."
Evidence Summary: The jobs report, released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.9 percent as more people entered the workforce. Wage growth for the month was up four-tenths of a percent, for an annual increase of 3.2 percent. The robust numbers indicate the labor market has remained largely immune to recent Wall Street whiplash and rumblings of an economic slowdown. President Donald Trump praised the latest data during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday afternoon.

Claim: "Under Barack Obama, the average cost of family health care premiums has increased by $4,154."
Evidence Summary: The share of Americans without health insurance reached its low point of 11 percent in the third and fourth quarters of 2016. Women, people who earn less than $48,000 a year and adults younger than 35 saw the highest increases in the uninsured rate. Rates for the “benchmark” policies on the exchanges in each state are 85 percent higher this year than they were in 2014. The results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare.

Claim: "On ending the war in Iraq, Gov. Romney said that was a tragic mistake, we should have left 30,000 troops there."
Evidence Summary: Romney was asked if he regretted accepting the president’s endorsement on Twitter ahead of the Utah primary, to which he fired back “He was endorsing me, I wasn’t endorsing him” The former 2012 presidential candidate went on to say that that he hasn't decided whom he will endorse in the 2020 election. Romney criticized the White House's foreign policy agenda, in particular, the president's plans to withdraw troops from Syria and Afghanistan. He vowed to speak out against statements or actions by president which he deemed "divisive, racist, sexist, anti-immigrant, dishonest or destructive to democratic institutions"

Claim: "Weve got 7.2 percent unemployment (in Ohio), but when you include the folks who have stopped looking for work, its actually over 10 percent."
Evidence Summary: The unemployment rate rose to 3.9%, but only because more people entered the workforce. While it’s hard to imagine the jobless rate dipping much lower, there are still Americans who either do not have jobs or are not clocking as many hours as they would like. Across metropolitan areas, the percentage of jobs that don't require a bachelor's degree that are good or promising ranges from 35 percent in Spokane, Washington, to 9 percent in Washington, D.C. Cities should focus on broader types of employment to extend economic improvement to every part of society.

Claim: "Says Dontre Hamilton, who was killed during a confrontation with a Milwaukee police officer, was unarmed."
Evidence Summary: Artavious Coleman, 33, was arrested after the "violent struggle," which happened around 2 a.m. Sunday. Officers had originally tried to pull over Coleman for driving a vehicle that had an expired registration. Coleman got to his feet at one point, prompting the officer to warn Coleman he was going to be "tased" According to witness accounts, he sprang into action after a fight broke out between two groups of men and shots were fired. Amid the chaos, Roberson, 26, of Chicago, managed to apprehend one of the bar shooting suspects, and was holding the man at gunpoint.

Claim: "All non-US citizens, illegal or not, will be provided with free health care services."
Evidence Summary: Clinics are torn between informing patients about the potential risks and unnecessarily scaring them into dropping their coverage or avoiding care. “We are walking a fine line,” says Tara McCollum Plese, chief external affairs officer at the Arizona Alliance for Community Health Centers. At Asian Health Services, a clinic group that serves Alameda County, Calif., staff members pass out fact sheets about the proposed changes, provide updates via their patient newsletter and host workshops where patients can speak to legal experts in several Asian languages.

Claim: "Requiring photo ID would keep about 200,000 Missourians from voting."
Evidence Summary: The census is also a statistical baseline for business and government decisions. An undercount could skew countless decisions on matters like where to locate new stores or where to open or close medical clinics. Total population figures will be used to reapportion seats in the House of Representatives in 2021. Because noncitizens tend to live in places that disproportionately vote Democratic, undercounting them in the census would be likely to shift federal spending and political power to Republican areas. Some of the six lawsuits to block the addition of the question argue that such a shift is the real motive for the Commerce Department’s decision.

Claim: "At this particular point in time, looking at the field, theres only one individual thats ever had the uniform of his country onand thats me."
Evidence Summary: "I've been able to help so many families this year and just really push Blue Line Bears to be the best that it can be," he says. "He'll face a challenge, I'm sure, if he's oversteps what the law requires when it comes to his responsibility as commander-in-chief" "Ultimately what 2020 is going to be about is not my family but the tens of millions of families across this country who just want a level playing field," he adds. "It’sGoing to be a whole new America. You’re going to see something so magical"

Claim: "Nearly 180,000 illegal immigrants with criminal records, ordered deported from our country, are tonight roaming free to threaten peaceful citizens."
Evidence Summary: The president “needs to create a sense of crisis to justify this costly boondoggle,” Sykes said. NBC reported Monday that according to statistics from the U.S. Department of Customs and Border Protection only six immigrants on a terror watchlist have been detained in six months at the Mexican border. In 2018, Border Patrol agents identified 728 immigrants with possible gang affiliations, not insignificant but a number far less alarming than the supposed savage multitude Trump will lie about tonight. Almost 7 out of every 10 immigrants in the United States have been living here for over a decade, building peaceful and hardworking lives.

Claim: "John McCain worries about nuclear waste in Arizona, but not in Nevada."
Evidence Summary: Nevada City in the Sierra Nevada began the online crowdsourcing campaign last month with the goal of raising $30,000 for the project. Vice Mayor Reinette Senum told The Los Angeles Times the town's 450 acres of greenbelt makes it especially vulnerable to fires. Jeff Flake tweeted a defense of his replacement, Democratic Sen. Kyrsten Sinema, after a national Republican committeeman referred to her as "Senator Madonna" in a Facebook post. On Saturday, the Washington governor will give the keynote address at the annual summit of the Nevada progressive advocacy organization Battle Born Progress.

Claim: "Rather than prioritize and pass ethics reform measures to restore trust in state government, (Democrats) sat on their hands and did nothing when they were the majority."
Evidence Summary: The GOP's only raison d’etre now is power, says former Sen. Harry Reid. The Affordable Care Act has so far withstood McConnell and Trump’s efforts to dismantle it, he says. Reid was prescient in urging the Obama administration and congressional Republicans to go public about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, Reid says. The appointment to the federal bench of an unprecedented number of conservative judges was made vastly easier by Reid's decision, in 2013, to get rid of the filibuster for judicial appointments.

Claim: "Vice President Joe Biden's meeting ""with the transparency and accountability board . . . was closed to the public."""
Evidence Summary: Biden's trip comes a day after a meeting with congressional leaders ended after just 14 minutes, with both sides pointing fingers. Vice President Mike Pence said Democrats were "unwilling to even negotiate" The less-than-a-quarter-hour meeting marked a "total breakdown in talks," ABC News Chief White House Correspondent Jonathan Karl tells us. And as the government shutdown enters Day 20, ABC News' Elizabeth McLaughlin and Stephanie Ebbs update us on how veterans and federal workers are handling the shutdown.

Claim: "If you go back to 1999, Wayne LaPierre testified on behalf of the NRA that background checks were appropriate and should be done."
Evidence Summary: The Parkland shooting has become a catalyst for the national debate on gun control. Stoneman Douglas students became youth activists for new gun legislation. Sheriff Israel himself, who has been twice elected in a heavily Democratic county, clashed head-on with the powerful National Rifle Association. “Since Gabby’s shooting, nearly 250,000 lives have been lost to gun violence, and over 800,000 Americans have been the victim of gun violence," Sheriff Israel said. "Every gun we take off the street will protect the public."

Claim: "With Obamacare, were fixing to get hit with the biggest entitlement program the American taxpayers have ever seen."
Evidence Summary: Americans are more enthusiastic about proposals to make enrollment in government-run insurance voluntary rather than mandatory. The results say a lot about why so many Democrats are talking about ideas like ‘Medicare for all’ and why, to succeed, those Democrats still have a lot of work to do. Republican leaders have had eight years to come up with improvements to the Affordable Care Act. They complained about the law nonstop that entire time, but have yet to put forth any feasible alternative plans.

Claim: "Says his GOP challenger, Doug MacGinnitie, ""hadnt voted in a Republican primary for almost 20 years until 2008."
Evidence Summary: Some Republicans fear Mr. Trump will face a primary challenge, perhaps from Romney or former Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake. John Kasich, also a prominent critic of the president, has publicly mulled running for president a second time. While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent).

Claim: Wisconsins dead last in Midwest job growth.
Evidence Summary: December's price gains were the worst since a decline was posted in 2012. Sales last month fell in all four geographical regions: Northeast, Midwest, South and the West. Barclays expects average monthly job growth to slow from more than 200,000 in 2018 to about 160,000 this year. The percentage of jobs that don't require a bachelor's degree that are good or promising ranges from 35 percent in Spokane, Washington, to 9 percent in Washington, D.C., according to a recent Brookings Institution study.

Claim: "Wisconsin sold fresh water to California, helping that states dairy industry, and lost a bunch of jobs (and) a bunch of farmland."
Evidence Summary: Wisconsin lost over 600 dairy farms last year and Trump’s trade wars haven’t helped. “We weather the weather,” farmer Kristin Duncanson, who raises hogs, corn and soybeans in Minnesota, told NPR. Trump promised his audience that the trade battles will eventually pay off. California Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newson, 50, stands outside the offices of his political consultants. Newsom hopes to be the first California Democrat to take over the statehouse from another Democrat, Gov. Jerry Brown, since the 1800s.

Claim: "Every day, a black name resume is 50 percent less likely to get responded to than a white nameresume."
Evidence Summary: British citizens from ethnic minority backgrounds have to send, on average, 60% more job applications to get a positive response from employers. While 24% of white British applicants received a call back from UK employers, only 15% of ethnic minority applicants did. The research has wider implications, in the labour market and more generally. Name-blind CVs have in the past been offered as a panacea for application discrimination. But such measures will only ever be moderately effective, given evidence of even more extensive discrimination in the interview process than in the callback phase.

Claim: "During the Bush administration, you actually had a prominent liberal write a book about how Bush was preparing for a fascist takeover of this country."
Evidence Summary: The op-ed was published the night of New Year's Day. Johnson invoked Trump's response to the deadly 2017 rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. This alternative history feel to the Trump presidency partly explains why some of the dystopian "Could it happen here?" novels have received a "Trump bump" in sales. The Atlantic: “What It Felt Like When ‘Cat Person’ Went Viral’” The Forward: ‘Meet America’s Only Jewish Political Dynasty: The Levins Of Michigan’

Claim: "Over the past two years, Florida has cut more than $1 billion in taxes."
Evidence Summary: Republicans sold the tax law on claims that it would pay for itself. The 2018 figures contradict that argument, too. The uncomfortable truth for the bill’s supporters is that the tax cuts are substantially contributing to a widening federal budget deficit. If growth fades in the coming years, the cuts could exacerbate the deficit even more.. The best-case scenario for proponents is that. the cuts spur a sustained increase in productivity and growth, which. in turn produces increasingly higher revenues several years down the road.

Claim: "Says Bernie Sanders wins California landslide, But ⅔ of his votes arent counted."
Evidence Summary: A group of six Porter County residents, working in bipartisan pairs at separate tables, shuffled and went through stacks of ballots from the November general election. Representatives from the Voting Technical Oversight Program, prohibited from actually handling the ballots, recorded the results on laptops. The work, which started Thursday morning, was expected to be completed by Friday, is part of a risk-limiting audit meant to determine the accuracy of the election. The recorder’s race had the tightest margin of the selected races, with around a 3 percent difference, so will require examining the most ballots.

Claim: Says Texas leads the nation in fatal industrial accidents.
Evidence Summary: In 2017, there were 5,147 accidental deaths in the American workplace. Drug overdose deaths on the job have increased by at least 25 percent in each of the last five years. The occupations with the highest fatality rates tend to have one of three things in common: they involve working from dangerous heights, frequent contact with dangerous machinery or driving for substantial periods. The figures come from the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ annual National Census Of Fatal Occupational Injuries report. Those working in the jobs on this list are prone to deadly slips and falls and even violent altercations.

Claim: "Nearly half of Hispanic voters in Arizona's last election supported four measures that were ""very tough on illegal immigration."""
Evidence Summary: A majority of Hispanics want stricter enforcement of America's immigration laws. Only 14 percent of American Hispanics think our country needs more immigrants. The Hispanic portion of the United States population today is similar to the portion in California in the early 1990s. You don’t have to be a political wizard to understand that alienating growing blocs of voters — not just Latinos, but also other immigrants and younger people — is bad political strategy. Click here to listen to the full interview with Ruben Navarrette.

Claim: "Gov. Scott Walker (is) more than halfway to (his) 250,000 jobs goal."
Evidence Summary: They include making Wisconsin a right-to-work state and requiring a photo ID to vote. He tightened restrictions on abortions, loosened limits on gun purchases and worked with Trump to land a Foxconn factory. Critics say Foxconn won't deliver on its promises and that the $3 billion Walker pledged to the company was too much. Through it all, Walker stands by his record. "I hope, over time, people could see that our interests, our motivations were earnest," he says.

Claim: "Obamacare means that for up to 20 million Americans, they will lose the insurance they currently have, the insurance that they like and they want to keep."
Evidence Summary: 7 million fewer Americans have health insurance today than did four years ago, a new survey has found, the highest uninsured rate since 2014. Results come after sustained Republican attacks on government-backed health schemes, including the Affordable Care Act. The survey’s findings come as the public is increasingly interested in government-run health programs. The United States is the only large, highly developed country that lacks universal health coverage. At the same time, healthcare costs in the US are the highest in the world, and can be financially catastrophic.

Claim: "Mike Dovillas big ideas like expanding the Ohio Motion Picture Tax Credit, which helped bring films like The Avengers to Cleveland, have helped make our state No. 1 in the Midwest for job creation."
Evidence Summary: Pritzker says he will work to make Illinois “the fastest-growing big state economy in the nation.” He argues that for Republicans, this means breaking their own self-made mold of being naysayers instead of doers. Pritzker will bring capital, technical assistance and mentorship to help Illinoisans start and build new businesses and new jobs, he says. He says both major parties ought to recognize the need to stanch an exodus of business and residents from Illinois.

Claim: "Since the Affordable Care Act passed, 90 percent of job growth has been in full-time positions."
Evidence Summary: Employers across a swath of industries from health care to manufacturing have more positions than they can fill. The labor market gains have been widespread, with unemployment rates for black, Hispanic, and female jobseekers reaching record lows. The share of people who have part-time positions but would prefer to work full time is higher today than it was in 2007. A far smaller share of the American population is working today than before the recession. That decline is partly because of the aging of the baby boom generation.

Claim: "Lets say (Republicans) take away half of our delegates. Theyre worth more than Iowas, New Hampshires and almost South Carolinas combined."
Evidence Summary: Party insiders and strategists are running out of terms to capture the potential for chaos if several candidates raise enough money. "Free for all," "Thunderdome," and "Lord of the Flies" are among the analogies. It's even possible — many Democrats say more likely than at any time in modern history — that the leading candidate will finish with a plurality but not a majority of delegates, leading to a brokered convention.“You don’t want to have a situation where you tear this country apart and for the next 30 years half the country’s saying, ‘We won the election, you stole it,’” Nadler said last year.

Claim: "Under last years health care reform, a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy."
Evidence Summary: Jurors condemned Aetna, saying it acted “recklessly’ in its review and delay of her care. She died within months from complications of her cancer. Should Americans pay for costly treatments that have not been shown to be more beneficial or less harmful than standard treatment? At stake are the health of millions of Americans with complex and debilitating illness, billions in health care costs, the affordability of health insurance, and data-driven medical care, says Dr. David Perry.

Claim: "The Obama administration spent $205,075 in stimulus funds to relocate a shrub that sells for $16."
Evidence Summary: The Justice Department placed an online job posting for a pair of attorneys to tackle border wall litigation in South Texas. The two advertised jobs, based in McAllen and Brownsville, will pay between $53,062 and $138,790. Government contractors are expected to jack up prices on everything from helicopters to IT support, growing wise to an administration that doesn’t pay its bills for weeks on end. The president’s numbers have been wildly different. Mike Pence two weeks ago offered us $2.5 billion, within an hour the president said no.

Claim: There has been no net global warming for over a decade now.
Evidence Summary: The survey, conducted last November and December among 1,114 American adults, showed the most dramatic shifts in public sentiment about global warming since Yale and George Mason began sampling opinion on the topic more than a decade ago. It found that 73 percent of Americans now believe global warming is happening, an increase of 10 percentage points from March 2015. “We know that many people still don’t know what can be done to slow global warming. But we are showing they are making progress on some of the early and critical steps,” said Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the Yale program.

Claim: "Thanks to the Obama administrations negotiations, Irans nuclear program will be under lock, key and camera 24 hours a day, 365 days a year."
Evidence Summary: John Bolton, President Donald Trump’s national security adviser, has asked the Pentagon for military options against Iran. The commentariat and the Democrats in exile are aghast, and insist that such bellicosity will only invite belligerence from Iran. But the truth is that when dealing with Iran, threats usually work while blandishments only whet the appetite of the mullahs who run the country. Tehran is also watching closely to see how North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un handles Trump. If Kim can wrangle a sweetheart deal and keep his nukes, then the Iranian regime may reason: worst case scenario, Trump is re-elected and we’ll shoot for a similar arrangement.

Claim: "As a result of Obamacare, California seniors face benefit cuts of over $1,700."
Evidence Summary: New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Tuesday that all services will be “affordable on a sliding scale” California's new Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom outlined a similarly ambitious health care agenda for his state. Newsom wants to reinstate the financial penalty for people who do not have insurance. He also wants to open up Medi-Cal, the state’s version of the Medicaid program, to undocumented young adults. He wants to protect the embattled Affordable Care Act.

Claim: "For the first time since the Korean War, total federal spending has gone down for two years in a row."
Evidence Summary: After two years of unified government, the U.S. faces a $1 trillion deficit. Unless the president has forever banished business cycles, the next recession will begin with gargantuan deficits. The Pentagon confirms it is pushing ahead with President Trump's controversial Syria drawdown. The federal government missed its first paycheck Friday as the partial government shutdown barrels into its fourth week. "The age of self-inflicted American shame is over, and so are the policies that produced so much needless suffering," Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says.

Claim: "In 2012, the state put together a list of over 100,000 people that they thought were ineligible to vote. Came out there were less than 10."
Evidence Summary: Elections supervisors began accepting former felons’ registrations on Tuesday. “I’m kind of skeptical that we’re going to see this big jump in terms of new registrations,” Professor Smith said. In several states, such as Ohio and Georgia, hundreds of thousands of voters had been purged from the voting rolls. These purges, conducted against citizens for merely having missed an election or two, are a new form of voter suppression. Such ploys should be deemed unacceptable in our democracy.

Claim: "The proudest accomplishment (of my tenure) was leaving the state with a $1.2 billion surplus, which was the largest wed ever had, and getting spending under control and a balanced budget."
Evidence Summary: Gov. Newsom left little doubt that he had a broader view of government than the moderate Mr. Brown. The departing governor inherited a $28 billion deficit and left him a $14 billion surplus. Pritzker, once a behind-the-scenes player, spent more than $160 million of his own money to win the Governor’s Mansion. The governor laid out his plans on Thursday, his fourth day on the job, in a two-hour presentation, reading from notes scribbled on a legal pad.

Claim: "Recently though, the media has reported on thousands of illegal voters here in the commonwealth."
Evidence Summary: "This is a law that's been on the books for 150 years. And people have fought for years to overturn it," he says. Mueller points out there had not been a challenge to a candidate’s petition since 1995. “Are they scared of me?” he asks. "But that's what's great about our Caucus. We're diverse, but we all come together when we’ve got to get things done," he adds. "This is no mere technicality"

Claim: "Stopped by Smiley Cookie to pick up some great cookies for the family, along with Rudy."
Evidence Summary: “I will hug my own children especially tightly next Sunday,” he says. “We’re going to the local pub for some food. They have been absolute rocks.” “Now I just want to go home and take care of my son.’ “I plan on being here a lot,’ he adds. ‘I’m going to find you. We’ve been looking for you for a long time’

Claim: "Mike Trainor...still owes $250,000 to the state."
Evidence Summary: The defense has said that Snyder paid all of his personal income tax debt and is still making timely payments on what is owned by his mortgage company. In recent decades, legislatures have directed courts to impose a vast array of fines and fees that turn the accused into revenue sources. A former Ohio State University wrestler who has accused his former assistant coach, now-Congressman Jim Jordan, of turning a blind eye to alleged molestation of athletes was jailed Monday in connection with a complaint that he harassed a former football star at the university.

Claim: "When it comes to the state deficit, Wisconsin is proportionally in as much trouble as the State of California."
Evidence Summary: New U.S. Census numbers show the ‘Illinois Exodus’ is ramping up. For the fifth straight year, the state lost more residents than it gained. Twitter users were happy to pile on the governor, who, as one of his last duties in office, signed legislation that stripped power from his Democratic successor and gave it to the Republican-controlled state legislature. “I intend to represent all Californians, not only those who voted for me,” Gov. Newsom said.

Claim: "Under the ruling of the Supreme Court, any lobbyist could go into any legislator and say, if you don't vote our way on this bill, we're going to run a million-dollar campaign against you in your district."
Evidence Summary: Downtowners are increasingly nervous about how the incoming class of House Democrats will deal with lobbyists. The current Congress can break with this depressing precedent by inserting itself into the debate. Public funding of campaigns would end the blizzard of pay-to-play, conflict of interest and favoritism that benefit big donors and hurt ordinary people. The Ald. Edward Burke case dramatically demonstrates that elected officials should not be involved in side businesses and be raising large contributions that distract them from working for their ordinary constituents.

Claim: Democrats have now become the party of the [Atlanta] metro area and of blacks.
Evidence Summary: The Democratic House majority swept into power on Thursday with a powerful infusion of women and people of color. The Republicans, not so much. GOP strategist Stuart Stevens slammed the “optics’ of his party’s representatives on Friday, saying they looked like members of a corporate board from the 1950s — i.e., a bunch of white guys. The visuals of new House should send a shiver through anyone who cares about future of Rep. Party. The GOP has fought against police reforms, affirmative action and policies that protect consumers from predatory lending.

Claim: "Says an alternative to Social Security that operates in Galveston County, Texas, has meant that participants will retire with a whole lot more money than under Social Security."
Evidence Summary: One obvious source of such savings would be pensions – the largest item in the social security budget. For many people of color, a government job has been the path to a middle-class existence, with healthcare, a pension and paid time off. About 800,000 federal workers are currently furloughed. Many of them have the kind of job protections and benefits rightwing intellectuals have long demonized. Who could argue with expanding a program that America’s seniors generally like and indeed have come to rely on?

Claim: "The Department of Veterans Affairs has a manual out there telling our veterans stuff like, 'Are you really of value to your community?' You know, encouraging them to commit suicide."
Evidence Summary: The goal of VA’s suicide prevention efforts is not to get every veteran enrolled in VA care, but rather to equip communities to help veterans get the right care, whenever and wherever they need it. Tragically, an average of 20 veterans die by suicide each day. Of those 20, 14 have not received recent VA care. The Veterans Crisis Line helps about 2,000 callers every day. A Safety Planning Intervention program currently in use at five VA facilities has shown to reduce suicidal behavior by 45 percent, and this intervention will be expanded to all VA facilities nationwide.

